Armageddon

FADE IN

Blackness. Then a hint of green becomes EARTH. It lies across an 
expanse of  space. Richly colored. Fertile.

A GIGANTIC ASTEROID cuts into frame, Burning into EARTH'S 
ATMOSPHERE and  striking down in the currant area of Guzumel, 
Mexico.

Voice An impact equivalent to ten thousand nuclear weapons 
detonating  simultaneously.

A HUGE DINOSAUR FOOT steps down hard and is VAPORIZED with a 
deafening ROAR.

Voice One hundred trillion tons of dirt and rock hurled into the 
atmosphere. 

EARTH, seen from space, is rocked with an IMMENSE SHOCKWAVE. A 
SHEET OF DEBRIS  washes across the North and South Hemispheres.

Voice A blanket of dust the sun is powerless to penetrate. For 
five thousand  years our world is robbed of light as a nuclear 
winter falls. In that darkness,  a civilisation is removed from 
existence.

EARTH is now completely entombed in a dark, cold hell. Letters 
push towards us--

"A R M A G E D D O N"

65 MILLION YEARS LATER

EARTH, reflected off the face of ASTRONAUT PETE SHELBY'S HELMET. 
It appears  close enough to touch. Shelby, attached to SHUTTLE 
ATLANTIS BY LIFELINE,  struggles to replace a piece of the 
shuttle's operational arm.

Shelby 
(with radio squawking)
 Houston, I can't get this thing to work...

EXT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL - DAY

Golden The size of Texas. In a hub of computers and tracking 
equipment, we find DAN GOLDEN, former  Astronaut from Apollo 8 
(first crew to orbit the Moon)
 and now N.A.S.A's  second-in-command. Golden is watching Shelby 
on a SERIES OF VIDEO SCREENS.  FLIGHT DIRECTOR WALTER CLARK sits 
with rows of N.A.S.A Techs. Golden stands over  him, arms on the 
back o his chair.

Clark Atlantis, what's the problem?

Shelby 
(V.0)
 It just isn't working. Any suggestions?

Clarke Hang on Pete. We'll figure something out for you.

Golden taps Clark and sits down.

Golden 
(to Shelby)
 We got the top scientific minds in the world working on  this. 
(a slight smile)
 Try "whacking" the thing. 

Shelby Okay, Houston, commence whacking.

Selby begins Whacking the satellite with his glove. The SATELLITE 
comes n-line,  lights up like a Christmas tree.

A HORRIFYING RUMBLING SOUND. SHOTGUN LIKE PELLETS assault the 
satellite.  SHRAPNEL rips into it's delicate gold skin. The 
satellite EXPLODES. Shelby's  lifeline breaks; he spins off, suit 
leaking from twenty punctures.

INT. SHUTTLE ATLANTIS

COMMANDER JAMES TURNER turns to his left

General "WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT?"

EXT. SHUTTLE ATLANTIS

STOTGUN LIKE PELLETS shred through Atlantis' N.A.S.A. logo, 
peeling the shuttle  down to her ribs. FIERY EXPLOSION.

EXT. SPACE

CLOSE ON SHELBY as he twirls away from Atlantis. His helmet is 
fogging. He gasps  for air, wretching, his eyelids leaking blood. 
He tries to form words

Shelby Ple...he...me....

Shelby's SHOULDER-CAM angle spins end-over-end....

INT. N.A.S.A - MISSION CONTROL MONITORS go dead.

N.A.S.A. Technician #1 All systems crashing!

N.A.S.A. Technician #2 Massive failure. We lost them.

Utter silence. Utter desolation. DOLLY IN ON GOLDEN'S FACE. Utter 
disbelief.

INT. WKU MOUNTIAN OBSERVATORY - NIGHT

THEO and PEARL 
(at telescope)
, and JIMBO 
(at the console)
, 20's, are  star-gazing. Astronomy books, Starbucks cups, etc., 
spread all over. Nine Inch  Nails plays on the radio. These three 
could land a date if only they would lose  the road flares 
(plaid shirts, glasses)
 that signal the painful fact that they  are die-hard science 
nerds THEO'S POV - THROUGH WKU TELESCOPE - Far off in space  is a 
dusty, murky swarm of matter - something resembling a FLOATING 
EXPLOSION.

Jimbo When are we going to let N.A.S.A in on what we've found?

Theo We don't even know what we have yet. Comet, asteroid - it 
could be  anything up there. And don't be so eager to red flag 
N.A.S.A. They don't call us  when they discover anything.

Jimbo Yeah, but this is their sandbox were playing in.

Theo This is our discovery. We're going to hold a press 
conference. We're  going to be famous. SPACEWATCH'll name this 
thing after us. Job offers are going  to fly in from all the big 
companies. J.P.L., that think tank up at M.I.T., hell  even 
N.A.S.A. 'll be chasing us.

Pearl I'm going on Oprah, Larry King, Letterman...

Jimbo Hell with them, I'm going on Howard Stern....

Pearl 
(concentrating)
 This things really acting up tonight. We should find out  if 
anyone else knows about this.

Theo How?

Jimbo 
(master of factly)
 Call N.A.S.A

Theo And say what? "Hi, we're a couple astronomer geeks who found 
something  really bitchin; floatin' in space." You can't just 
call N.A.S.A. It's like  calling the White House. Besides, you'll 
never get the number.

Jimbo I have the number. I got it from "Mega monster."

Pearl Who?

Jimbo He's some super-hacker, I went to high school with. Guy's 
totally wired  into every encrypted government installation.

Theo He's also an ex-con.

Jimbo They never proved he shut down the power in those seven 
states.

Theo grabs the phone.

INT. HOUSTON TEXAS - JOHNSON SPACE CENTER - NIGHT

Golden and his crew, devastated and exhausted, search for 
answers. We cut around  the room.

Clark What the hell was that?

Technician 1 Space junk?

Technician 2 Too big, too much. It took out the whole shuttle.

Clark The press is going to want answers. What are we going to 
say?

Golden Nothing. Not until we know what happened.

INTERCUT - N.A.S.A. MISSION CONTROL/WKU OBSERVATORY

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL

Two N.A.S.A. techs, FLIP and SKIP, looking very haggard, 
furiously typing  numbers into the circulator. The phone RINGS, 
Flip answers.

Jimbo 
(whispers to Pearl & Theo)
 I got mission control....!

Flip Yeah, Mission Control.

Jimbo 
(into phone)
 Uhh hi, I'm an astronomer in Kentucky, and I was wondering  if 
you guys had seen some strange activity in the southern middle 
quadrant of  the asteroid belt between Antares Major and Epsilom 
Scorpio....

Flip Who is this?

Jimbo My name? Uhh....Louis Lipshitz...

Flip This is a restricted line. How did you get it? Where are 
you?

Jimbo Lexington... Massachusetts.

Flip Can you tell me the exact co-ordinates..?

Theo Hang up! Hang up now!

Jimbo hangs up the phone.

Theo Lexington.. uhh...Massachusettes. Idiot. I told you not to 
call them.

EXT. MANHATTAN ISLAND - SUNRISE

Establishing. The sun rises over the Brooklyn Bridge.

EXT. MANHATTEN - MADISON AVENUE - EARLY MORNING

LITTLE GUY, still yawning, exits an apartment with a Jack Russell 
terrier on a  long RETRACTABLE LEASH. TERRIER'S POV as the little 
dog attacks the city,  looking for a place to relieve himself. 
The Man stops in front of a "Crazy  Eddie's" T.V. store. Floor-
to-ceiling T.V.'s in the window broadcasting  E.S.P.N.'s "Morning 
Exercise Show" with hot women SWEATING.

The Jack Russell strains on the leash to a FIRE HYDRANT. A SHOE 
is next to the  hydrant, connected to a HUGE SAMOAN GUY watching 
the pelvic thrusting on T.V.  The dog lifts his leg and pees, 
hitting both hydrant and shoe. The huge Samoan  guy kicks the 
dog. The dog YELPS.

Little Guy You kick my dog again and I'll go nuclear on you.

The T.V. images BLINK and STATIC. A massive SONIC BOOM emanates 
directly above.  The huge Samoan guy looks up as---

A ROCK, the size of a basketball, strikes him and EXPLODES into 
the pavement,  spewing sparks and concrete, throwing PEDESTRIANS 
to the sidewalk.

INT. "CRAZY EDDIE'S" T.V. STORE

FIFTY T.V.s are BLOWN across the showroom floor. SALESMEN and 
CUSTOMERS dive to  the floor, SCREAMING.

EXT. MANHATTEN - "CRAZY EDDIES"

Little guy, lying on the sidewalk, recovers. His DOG LEASH runs 
from the leash  grip into a 10 FOOT CRATER in the sidewalk. The 
huge Samoan guy's LEGS protrude. 



Little Guy Samson?

Pedestrian Somebody call 9-1-1!

INSIDE THE CRATER - THE JACK RUSSELL dangles by the leash. 
Embedded in the hole  30 feet below is A SMOKING, RED HOT OBJECT. 

INT - N.O.R.A.D. - CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN

The U.S.'s Early Warning Air Defence. Two U.S.A.F RADAR 
TECHNICIANS are hunched  over radar screens.

Radar Tech 1 I got one, two, three boggies...the whole board's 
lighting up!

The RADAR TECH 2 hits a KLAXON, stabs phone line buttons.

EXT. MANHATTEN - MORNING

Traffic is ground to a halt. CAMERA MOVES into a cab. STU, the 
Cabbie, with an  ASIAN TOURIST, who's craning his neck out the 
window.

Asian Tourist What's the problem? Stu Could be a couple of 
things: shootin',  stabbin', dead guy 
(shrugs)
 Well, it's Friday, payday. Could be a jumper.

A projectile the size of a dump truck SCREAMS through the sky and 
blasts through  three huge buildings.

More projectiles explode in the intersection. Cars get thrown 
everywhere. Stu's  cab slams upside down into JOHNNY'S BAR.

ONE BLOCK DOWN. THE ENTIRE TOP FIVE STORIES -- A sheared section 
topples and  hits the street below. Bricks, mortar and gargoyles 
everywhere.

EXT. WASHINGTON D.C. - PENTAGON - DAY

Establishing, over which we hear RINGING PHONES.

EXT. PENTAGON - GENERAL TEMPLE'S OFFICE - DAY

Chaos in the corridors. GENERAL TEMPLE, Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, a  man of stature, bursts out of his office, met 
by his SECRETARY.

Secretary We're getting reports as far away as Greenland and 
parts of Mexico!

Temple Get me Dan Goldman on the secure phone.

Temple enters his office and picks up a secure phone.

INT. MISSION CONTROL - INSIDE THE GLASS-ENCASED ROOM

Golden enters the room and sits down. Technician Flip hands him a 
secure phone.  Golden sinks into his chair. In the b.g., VIDEO 
MONITORS show twenty live feeds  from T.V. stations across the 
country.

Temple 
(V.O.)
 Can you go secure?

Golden 
(presses a button on the phone)
 I am secure. Go ahead, General.

He listens...WE HEAR the distinct gargled voice of a secure line.

Golden When?

Temple 
(V.O.)
 Twelve minutes ago. Now you know what happened to your shuttle.

INTERCUT - GOLDEN / TEMPLE

INT. PENTAGON - GENERAL TEMPLE'S OFFICE - DAY

Temple paces in his office.

Temple I'm going to brief the President. What's going on here, 
Dan? Why didn't  we have warning?

Golden Tell the president it's called "budget cuts." We don't 
have enough  telescopes to track the skies.

Temple Is it over?

Golden I don't know. We'll figure it out. 
(hangs up)


INT. MISSION CONTROL - INSIDE THE GLASS-ENCASED ROOM

Flip enters the room. Skip writes notes....

Golden 
(to Skip and Flip)
 Fly a team up to New York. Contact every Space Watch  facility 
in the world. We gotta find what part of the sky this is coming 
from.

Skip I'll call J.P.L. and get the Hubble telescope on it.

Golden Did we find who made the phone call last night?

Flip The F.B.I.'s on it.

INT. KENTUCKY - DORMITORY ROOM

Theo is sleeping. The door is RAMMED in. Two F.B.I. AGENTS ROAR 
into the room,  overwhelming him.

EXT. KENTUCKY - COLLEGE CAMPUS

Pearl and Jimbo are walking across campus. TWO BLACK SEDANS pull 
up. The kids  increase their pace.The sedans SKID to a stop. 
F.B.I. AGENTS spring from the  cars, cuff them and CUT TO

MANHATTEN - JOHNNY'S - DAY

Stu's upside down cab, in front of Johnny's. A tow truck removes 
dented cars  from the trashed intersection. Career drunks, FRANK, 
FRED and WILLIE, stand in  the threshold looking out at the 
devastated intersection. Stu sits on top of his  cab, Listening 
to the guys

Frank This city sucks...

Fred What the hell was it?

Willie They're sayin' it's space rocks.

Stu Rocks from space, my ass. That, my friends, was the work of 
the big  Saddam. That was big-ass Iraqi missiles

INT. MANHATTAN - SUBWAY - DAY

F.B.I. AGENTS and N.A.S.A. SCIENTISTS examine a CHUNK OF 
ASTEROID, still  smouldering, which has ripped through the roof 
and floor of a subway car. The  plastic seats and aluminium 
panelling of the car has melted.

EXT. KENTUCKY - INTERROGATION ROOM - AFTERNOON

Jimbo, Theo and Pearl sit in front of three F.B.I. AGENTS. Two 
N.A.S.A.  ASTRONOMERS look over the kids' TELESCOPE PHOTOS with 
concern.

Jimbo So, that N.A.S.A. guy wasn't kiddin; about bein' arrested 
and....

Federal Agent Please shut up.

Jimbo Yes, absolutely, yes sir.

N.A.S.A. Astronomer I'm a N.A.S.A. astronomer. When were these 
photos taken?

Federal Agent And which of you called N.A.S.A. Mission Control 
last night?

Jimbo 
(points at Theo)
 Him.

Theo 
(points at Jimbo)
 Him.

Jimbo I was calling the Houston area code, which is 713. I was 
calling 712,  which is outside Spokane, Washington, where my Aunt 
Zelda....

N.A.S.A. Astronomer Tell us the exact ascension angle of your 
telescope when  this was taken.

Theo It's our discovery. No way.

N.A.S.A. Astronomer Your "discovery" killed close to 100 people 
in New York  alone - people who could've used a warning.

Jimbo, Theo and Pearl lower their eyes.

Jimbo Our math must've been off! we thought it was gonna pass the 
Earth!

Pearl Ascension 712, retention 345.

F.B.I. Agent 2 And you've told no one about this- not your 
teachers, not your  friends?

N.A.S.A. Astronomer 
(into cellular phone)
 J.P.L., please. Search  co-ordinates...

INT. PASADENA CALIFORNIA - J.P.L. - NIGHT

N.A.S.A.'s Jet Propulsion Laboratory home of the HUBBLE SPACE 
TELESCOPE. Two  J.P.L. TECHNICIANS man the Hubble's control 
console. 

J.P.L. Technician 1 New info! Plot co-ordinates 712 by 345. Let's 
move on  high-resolution imaging. J.P.L. TECHNICIAN 2 punches the 
co-ordinates into a control console.

EXT. OUTER SPACE - CONTINUOUS 
(DAY)


The HUBBLE SPACE TELESCOPE floats by in geosynchronous orbit. The 
telescope  tilts, repositioning in view.

INT. PASADENA CALIFORNIA - J.P.L. - NIGHT

Images from the Hubble arrive on a high resolution printer. 
J.P.L. Technician 1  grabs four PHOTOS from the printer. 
Technician 2 swipes stuff off the console,  making room. Together 
they arrange the four photos. They star silently at the  awesome 
COMPOSITE PHOTO.

J.P.L. Technician 1 Motherfu......

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL - ENCLOSED ROOM - NIGHT

Golden and all his TECHNICIANS crowd around a console, staring at 
a smaller  version of the COMPOSITE PHOTO.

Golden Copies to the Pentagon, Colorado Space Command, and the 
Washington  office. We gotta compute size, composition, speed, 
impact point

WE SEE the photo -- A HUGE ASTEROID

EXT. OUTER SPACE - CONTINUOUS - DAY

CAMERA PUSHES THROUGH A CLOUD OF ROCKY, ICY DEBEIS, penetrating 
the cloud until  the HUGE ASTEROID CORE comes into clear view -- 
a mass of dirt and ice -- rough,  craggy, menacing. INT. N.A.S.A. 
- BRIEFING ROOM - NIGHT

Golden and Clark enter. A group of ten N.A.S.A. SENIOR 
TECHNICIANS are all  talking at once.

Golden Okay guys, one of the worst days in N.A..S.A history just 
got worse.  Ten million to one. A rogue comet came from deep 
space and collided with an  asteroid. Some  kids actually got a 
picture of the collision event and told no one.  The stuff that 
hit this morning was the collision's forward-thrown matter, mere  
pebbles from what's  about to come. Walter? 

Clark A big asteroid. E.T.A., eighteen days. A lot bigger than 
the five mile  one that obliterated the dinosaurs.

Silence. Everybody stares at each other.

The phone CHIRPS.

Golden's Secretary Director, the Pentagon.

Golden hits a button.

A LARGE T.V. SCREEN establishes AUDIO/VISUAL link.

INTERCUT; PENTAGON - SITUATION ROOM/ N.A.S.A. - BRIEFING ROOM

INT. PENTAGON - SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT

Temple sits with the Joint Chiefs, White House Chief of Staff, 
the Directors of  the N.A.S.A., C.I.A., etc.

Temple Dan, we're all here. Tell us what we're up against. 

Golden 
(V.O.)
 In it's simplest terms? The end of Mankind. One asteroid, one  
mile wide or bigger, impacts the Earth with the equivalent force 
of all the  nuclear weapons in the  world, times a thousand. Half 
our population will die within 24  hours from tidal waves and 
heat pulses. The other half won't be so lucky. In the  end, it 
will be men  eating the flesh of other men. 
(beat)
 It's not the end of the  world, General, the world - Earth - 
will still be here. But there will be no  life - maybe 
cockroaches and  some resilient strands of bacteria. 

Temple Well, that's really positive, Dan. The President just got 
off the phone  with the Russians. They're just about to launch a 
new Mars Probe on the biggest  rocket in the world.  Golden and 
the N.A.S.A. BRASS exchange sceptical looks.

Golden 
(V.O)
 With the worst guidance system in the world. Their Mars Probe in  
'96 was found by a pygmy tribe in Africa. 

Temple They're going to pull off the probe and replace it with 
four Atlas  Class IV nuclear warheads. Enough punch in their 
opinion - not to break it up -  but to slow it down enough to 
miss Earth's orbit. 

Golden 
(V.O)
 Their launch date is set for next month.

Temple They're going to move it up.

Golden 
(V.O)
 To when?

Temple Sixteen hours from now.

All the N.A.S.A. Technicians CLAMOR at once.

Golden 
(V.O)
 What are they gonna do, glue, spit, and scotch tape it together?  
Even if they get a nuke out to the asteroid, a surface nuclear 
detonation is not  going to work.  The only way is to split the 
thing in half and hope the two pieces  slide past us. 

Temple Thank you for bringing up the impossible, Dan.

Colinswood People, the President's joining us, Mr. President?

President 
(V.O)
 Well, this has been a tough day. The media's all over this.  
They're going to get nothing. Telling the public we might all be 
dead in  eighteen days achieves nothing but panic. 

Golden 
(V.O)
 Mr President, finding this speck in the sky is a very hard thing  
to do unless you have the exact co-ordinates. There are only 
twelve telescopes  powerful enough  to see it right now. You've 
got a full moon goin' for four days -  makes it all but 
impossible to see.. Once these things draw closer to Earth,  
you'll never keep a lid on  this. No way. 

INT. N.A.S.A. BRIEFING ROOM - NIGHT

The video screen blinks off. Golden looks at his Techs.

Golden How many of you are as scared as I am?

Golden raises his hand. All the other N.A.S.A. Techs, one by one, 
raise their  hands.

Golden One giant leap for Mankind. Everyone remember that? This 
is what we are  going to do. We're going to fly to that asteroid 
with a nuclear device, implant  it and get off  before it blows. 
Quincy? 

All eyes turn to N.A.S.A. Chief of R&D, RONALD QUINCY. Quincy has 
coke bottle  glasses and a 198 I.Q.

Quincy Look: set a fire cracker off in your open palm, you get a 
third degree  burn. Close your fist, It'll do some serious 
damage. If we can get a nuke deep  in one of the asteroid's fault 
lines, she'll split in two, like a diamond. 

Golden You're all looking art us like we're crazy. We're not.

Skip Dan, our currant shuttle fleet is too old and too slow.

Golden What I'm going to tell you is a breach of national 
security and could  land me in jail, but in eighteen days there 
arnt' gonna be any jails,  so....We're not gonna use a  current 
shuttle. Gentlemen, I'm talking about the X-71. 

Skip It's done?

Quincy Has been for three months.

EXT. ARIZONA DESERT - FLIGHT TESTING FACILITY - DAY

N.A.S.A.'s flight testing facility. A flat, hard, dry area 
dominated by an  ENORMOUS HANGER. The HANGER DOOR is open; breeze 
blows back a BLACK SILK  TARPAULIN, revealing the X-71's NOSE. 
Technicians come and go. 

INT. N.A.S.A - BRIEFING ROOM - DAY

Golden Time is our enemy. This is like the race to the Moon, guys 
- what this  Agency was founded on.

Skip Boss, we're good at space travel, but you're talkin' about 
drilling a  hole.

Golden Quincy's been working on excavating the ice from the Moon 
- he's gonna  reorient his thinking. Right, Quince?

Quincy Right. And the first thing I'm gonna do is talk to the guy 
I ripped  off. His name is Harry S. Stamper. He's the best oil 
driller in the world. 

Golden I don't care who he is, what he's doing.

EXT. NORWAY COAST - NORTH SEA - "TROLL" OIL RIG - DAY

SUPER -  DAY TWO

Close on a GOLF BALL. THWACK! The golf ball EXPLODES off the tee 
from an oil  rig. The "TROLL" is the largest man-made structure 
in the world - 12 aircraft  carriers big and 1200 feet tall. A 
self-contained city. 

HARRY STAMPER, world's foremost expert on offshore deep drilling, 
immaculately  attired in golf attire and spikes, stands on a 
patch of Astroturf with a five  iron in his hand. Piped-in MOZART 
drown out the rig noise. 

EXT. "TROLL" - DRILLING PLATFORM - "A" DERRICK - DAY 

The main drilling platform. On "A" derrick, Chief Driller, A.J. 
FROST, 30,  handsome, is at the controls. Roughnecks "JIMBO" 
CARTWRIGHT, "BEAR" BROWN,  "CHICK" CHAPPLE, TITO GUEVARA, and MAX 
LOGAN, handle 20 foot sections of PIPE  DRILLING SRTRING with a 
HYDRAULIC TONG AND CLAMP. 

Roughneck BENNIE MORGAN, late 20's an ox of a man, comes across 
the platform,  pulling an oily green coveralls and donning his 
hard-hat. Bennie examines the  rig's DOWNHOLE PRESSURE GAUGE. 

Bennie Chick! take a look at this!

Chick Pressure's been up all morning. She kicked twice on me.

A.J.'s eyes move to a TALL BLOND MAN on his lunch break across 
the rig.

A.J. What did our always-at-lunch-Swedish geologist say?

Bennie Jah, jah, jah. No bleeper. Too much pressure.

Chick You askin' the old man?

A.J. nods and walks off.

EXT. "TROLL" RIG - TOP TIER

Harry HITS another ball. WE REVEAL his target, a GREENPEACE BOAT 
anchored off  the rig. The BALL strikes the side of the boat, 
just missing the head of ONE of  the PROTESTERS.

Harry Almost caught that little bastard.

He admires his shot as his daughter, GRACE, walks up. Grace is 
late 20's,  business dress, Harvard Law.

Grace Having fun?

Harry HITS another ball. It misses the boat, skips across the 
water.

Grace Sure sliced the shit outta that one. 
(frowns)


Harry Watch your language, Gracie.

Grace Seagulls swallow those and they die.

Harry Stupid birds.

Harry's EYES move to a GROUP OF GREENPEACE PROTESTERS across the 
rig, being held  back by Stamper Oil SECURITY GUARDS. 

Grace I just talked with A.J.

Harry Talking to him quite a bit these days....

Grace 
(awkward pause)
 "A" rig's acting up. The drill string kicked twice this  
morning, gave Chick a nasty bruise in the head.

Harry Good. He's not vulnerable there.

Grace Chase Manhatten okayed the bridge financing for the 
Micronesia Project,  but at 21 percent interest. And Lloyd's of 
London refuses to underwrite the  Venezuela> Project....  

Harry Thieves and cowards, all of 'em. Twist their arms.

Grace I am.

Harry Keep twisting. Like a pit bull.

Grace Oh, and that magazine article - they want some human 
interest stuff -  likes and dislikes. "Likes" I said Golf, Fly 
Fishing, Single Malt Scotch, Old  Movies. What about  "Dislikes?"

Harry Any kind of flying and oil company executives. Go deal with 
'em. I  always look better when you're doing the talking.

Harry HITS another ball. CLANG.

Grace You know you donate 300 grand a year to Greenpeace.

Harry smiles at the contradiction.

Harry What'd your mother call me?

Grace Complicated.

Harry Yeah well....I'm complicated.

Grace walks off, passing A.J., winking at him. A.J. winks back.

A.J. What's his mood?

Grace Complicated.

A.J. walks up to Harry.

Harry I understand we're having problems with "A" rig.

A.J. I'm on top of it 
(Harry picks up his bag)
 Harry, you have a second?

Harry Yeah. One.

A.J. I'll hurry. I've worked for you for a long time.

Harry Twelve years.

A.J. And you've been real good to me....

Harry Another company make you an offer, kid?

A.J. No. The reason I am here, today, standing here, talking to 
you. I'm  obviously talking to you...but it's, you know, not, 
uhh...it's not an  oil-related matter exactly....

Harry You're sweating, A.J.

A.J. You know there comes a time in a man's life when...
(to himself)
 No,  that's a cliché...
(to Harry)
 Can I start again? I, uhh, fell...I've fallen...

Harry You hurt yourself?

A.J. In love, I mean. Fallen in love. It's the damnedest thing, 
but this  person you...know...really well.

ACROSS THE PLATFORM - Grace escorts five angry OIL INDUSTRY 
EXECUTIVES over to  Harry. A KLAXON SOUNDS. Harry, alarmed, 
rushes right past them, toward the "A"  Derrick. They follow, 
snapping at his heels

Oil Executive 1 You explicitly promised results at 25 thousand 
feet.

Harry We have results.

Oil Executive 2 But we don't have oil. We've given you everything 
you've  asked....

Harry Horseshit. What the...? Chick! Bennie! Somebody better tell 
me why the  hell "A" derrick is not turning!

Chick hurries up to Harry.

Chick The uhh....the Greenpeace guys.

Harry approaches "A" Derrick. Five MEMBERS of Greenpeace have 
handcuffed  themselves in a circle around the drilling pipe.

Harry Hey there, what can I do for you?

Greenpeace Leader This is an official protest.

Harry 'Course it is. I love you guys. You like dolphins and 
whales, I like 'em  too. Hey, I know you. You too. Didn't you 
have shorter hair?

Greenpeace Leader Stamper, do you know what this thing does to 
the eco-system?

Harry How'd you get out here? Canoe? Rowboat? Oh, that boat down 
there with a  thousand horsepower diesel!

Greenpeace Leader How can you wake up every day and look at 
yourself in the  mirror?

Harry The same way you did when you blow-dried your hair this 
morning. And you  used a curling iron, I betcha. Did you know 
most electricity's from burning oil?  I'' stop drillin' when the 
world - stops usin' it. Bennie, start 'er up! 

Greenpeace Leader Wait........

Harry Can't wait! I'm a businessman! Those goons over there gave 
me 57 mil. to  find oil and they ain't leavin' till I do! 'cause 
they have no lives! 

The drill string begins to turn in the hole.

Greenpeace Leader We....we threw away the key.

Harry Sorry. Time is money. BENNIE!

The MASSIVE HYDRAULIC KELLY begins to descend on the Greenpeace 
Activists'  heads.

Greenpeace Leader STOP!!!!

Harry Bennie! Third gear!

The Greenpeace Leader miraculously produces a key and frantically 
begins  unlocking the handcuffs.

Grace turns to the oil executives.

Grace He's good at public relations.

A.J. approaches Grace; they watch Harry.

Grace So? 
(A.J. stares at her)
 What? 
(no response)
 What? 
(no response)
 A.J.?

Suddenly, across "A" Derrick, a KLAXON SOUNDS.

Chick She's kickin'!

The civilians get the hell away.

Harry and A.J. run toward the rig.

Chick Pressure's north of seven thousand!

A.J. We gotta clear the Derrick!

Harry 
(looks at wellhead)
 Chick, rig up another pipe. 
(Chick and Bennie look  at Harry with uncertainty)
 NOW, NOT TOMORROW. 

CHick and Bennie begin clamping, and tong a PIPE STRAND onto the 
DRILL STRING  like an INDY PIT STOP CREW.

A.J. Harry, we've hit pressure. We gotta bleed it off. e go any 
deeper, we'll  blow the rig.

Harry Thanks for that opinion. Chick, full speed!

A.J. The bit's five thousand feet down! Full speed'll rip the 
pipe apart!

Harry You learn all this in college? I been doing this thirty 
years, kid. Get  on the controls.

A.J. moves reluctantly to the DRILLING CONTROLS. Chick nods to 
A.J., who engages  the gears. The PIPE STRING turns at FULL 
SPEED. The new drill pipe descends ten  feet into the hole, 
then....

The torque rips the NEWLY ATTACHED PIPE from the drilling string. 
The drill  spins freely.

A.J. hits the "stop! lever and stares at Harry.

The roughnecks converge around the wellhead.

A.J. I'm goin' down. Reattach it. Gimme a wrench and a band 
coupling.

Chick hand the items to A.J.

A.J. descends into the drilling hole.

INT. DOWN THE DRILLING HOLE - DAY

A.J., holding his breath under water, shimmies down the drilling 
pipe  feet-first, inside the water-filled concrete tube running 
from the rig to the  ocean floor. 

A.J. begins wrestling the disconnected sections together. EXT. 
RIG - "A" DERRICK

The wellhead KICKS. The rig platform shakes and shudders. 
SEAWATER erupts from  the wellhead.

Chick The drill hole's flooding!

Grace A.J.!!

Harry strips off his jacket and climbs into the wellhead. He 
takes a huge breath  and disappears into the brine-filled 
drilling hole. 

INT. DRILLING HOLE

A.J. is pinned against the hole wall by one of the disconnected 
pipes. Harry  comes down the hole. He plants his back against the 
hole wall and kicks the  pipe, freeing A.J. A slow, deep, RUMBLE 
emanates from below. The Briny water  inside the hole suddenly 
turns BLACK and VISCOUS. 

A.J. and Harry exchange an alarmed look. Harry, then A.J., pull 
for the surface,  up the drilling hole as -- 

EXT. DRILLING PLATFORM - "A" DERRICK - DAY

-- the wellhead KICKS again. The rig platform SHUDDERS violently. 
The derrick  sways. SEAWATER SPEWS up from the wellhead. 

Chick Get back, she's gonna blow!

Grace, Chick, Bennie and the other Roughnecks huddle around the 
flooded drilling  hole, waiting. Tense, agonising seconds pass. 

Harry scrambles out, covered in....CRUDE OIL.

He grabs Grace and pulls her away.

Grace Where's A.J.!!!?

Harry RIGHT BEHIND ME! RUN!

The platform SHAKES. Harry, Grace, and the others sprint away as 
--

A GEYSER OF CRUDE OIL erupts from the drilling hole, blowing A.J. 
out of the  hole fifteen feet above the wellhead. A.J. crashes to 
the platform floor. 

CRUDE OIL rains down on Grace and the Roughnecks...they run to 
A.J.

Grace Never do that again!

CLOSE ON A.J. - he's looking back at the DRILL HOLE, panting, 
traumatised,  greasy oil raining on his head.

A.J. You know how I told you there were two obstacles? I didn't 
do the  first,'cause he's tough...but I did the second...! 
(pulls out case; opens it)
 I  got it at uhm..Tiffany's. I can't give it to you until I talk 
to him, but try it on. 

She reaches for the ring. It slips from A.J.'s hand and falls 
through the grated  floor, pinging off the rig's steel pylons, 
100 feet into the sea below. 

Grace Don't worry! Tiffany's insures up to a week from purchase!

A.J. stares despondently over the railing.

Harry, black with crude oil, staggers past A.J.

A.J. 
(pointedly)
 Good plan, Harry.

Harry 
(walks over to Oil Execs)
 There's your oil, gentlemen. Now get the hell  off my rig.

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL - DAY

Golden, Clark, Skip, Flip and the rest of the Mission Control 
Technicians watch  a live feed from Russia. A RUSSIAN ENERGIA 
SUPER BOOSTER ROCKET sits on its  launch platform. 

Flip Look it that sucker. They got a nuke up there in sixteen 
hours?

Skip It'll never fly. Never.

Clark Three things the Russians make well, guys - vodka, gymnasts 
and rockets.  Don't count 'em out.

Golden It's the late 20th century, I run the U.S. Space Program, 
and I'm  praying to God the Russians are better at this than we 
are.... 

EXT. RUSSIA SPACE CENTER - SMOLINSKAYA A.F. BASE - DAY

The ground begins to SHAKE uncontrollably. EXHAUST billows out 
from the Rocket's  BOOSTERS. The Russian rocket blasts off and 
lifts into.... 

Something's wrong. The Rocket stops accelerating and stands still 
for a moment.  It falls to Earth; BLOWING UP in a thunderous 
inferno. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL - DAY

Golden, Clark, and all the N.A.S.A. Techs stare at the burning 
rocket.

Golden So, where's our oil driller?

EXT. RIG - "A" DERRICK

A champagne cork POPS and WIDEN TO Harry, Grace, A.J., and all 
fifty Roughnecks.  The wellhead's been capped; pumping 2500 
gallons per minute. 

Harry To Hole Number Seventy-Six!

Roughnecks 
(UNISON)
 Hole Number Seventy-Six!

The Oil Executives stand off, watching.

Oil Executive 1 Seventy-Six?

Oil Executive 2 This is Harry's Seventy-Sixth straight hit.

Oil Executive 1 The man's a legend.

We hear the WHOP, WHOP, WHOP of HELICOPTER BLADES. Harry, Grace 
and A.J. turn  toward the noise.

TWO U.S. ARMY BLACKHAWK HELICOPTERS whirr across the choppy 
ocean.

EXT. OIL RIG - TOP TIER HELI-PAD - MINUTES LATER

The helicopters land on the heli-pad on the oil rig's top tier, 
MAJOR STINSON,  50's, wearing formal dress and sunglasses along 
with two strapping ADJUTANTS  stride across the rig. 

Major Stinson Harry Stamper? I'm Major William Stinson, United 
States Army. I  need a few words with you. In private.

Harry Say it now, say it quick, or get off my rig, Major. I've 
got a business  to run here.

Major Stinson You've been summoned back to the States.

Harry Who's doin' the summoning?

Major Stinson Your Government, Mr Stamper.

INT. SOMEPLACE IN KENTUCKY - HOLDING CELL - NIGHT

Jimbo, Theo and Pearl sit in a holding cell some place. Jimbo's 
banging on the  door.

Jimbo Hey, zipperheads! Ever watch "L.A. Law?" Right to remain 
silent, right  to an attorney? My brother's a bad-ass lawyer - 
he's gonna sue your asses to  Mars. I was in pre-  law for a 
month - you can't put somebody in jail for makin' a phone  
call!!! 

Pearl It isn't about that, Jimbo. We saw something we weren't 
supposed to.

Theo Something they're not telling the public.

Jimbo Yeah, that's why they were so hot for the co-ordinates. Do 
you think  it's an asteroid? Or comet?

Theo I dunno - but I bet it's a whopper.

INT. N.A.S.A. FLIGHT MISSION ROOM - DAY

Harry, AJ. and Grace are led into the room by Stinson. Quincy's 
eyes move to  Harry --

Quincy He's here.

Quincy, Clark and Golden stand, approach --

Quincy 
(cont'd)
 Dan Golden, meet Mister Harry Stamper, the finest oil driller  
in the world.

Golden Mister Stamper..
(shaking hands)
 Dan Golden, I'm Director of --

Harry I know who you are. I watched T.V. once. Apollo 8, right? 
First manned  lunar orbit.

Golden That was a long time ago. I run this place now. And we've 
got a serious  problem on our hands that Quincy here thinks you 
might be able to help us out  with -- 

Quincy eagerly outstretches his hand. They shake. Quincy doesn't 
let go.

Quincy I'm a big fan, Mr. Stamper.

Harry I kinda caught that. 
(to Golden)
 What's the problem, gentlemen?

Golden I wonder if we might speak alone?

Harry These two are my right and left arms. Grace Stamper and 
Albert Jack  Frost. Stupid name, so we call him A.J.. 
(handshakes)
 They run my company. You  talk to me, you  talk to them. 

Golden Okay.

Golden direct everyone into --

INT. N.A.S.A. - BRIEFING ROOM - DAY

Golden, Temple, Clark, Harry, Grace, and A.J. sit in a dark room 
viewing a  VIDEOTAPE. Quincy stands beside the projector, 
supplying narration. On the tape  we see Harry on a rig platform 
shaking hands with an ARAB BUSINESSMAN -- 

Harry Great, home movies.

Grace and A.J. smile.

Quincy Nineteen eighty five. The first well drilled over 50 
thousand feet.  They said it couldn't be done. You did it. 
Incredible. 

ON THE SCREEN - Harry's on another rig, shaking hands with an 
INDONESIAN  BUSINESSMAN. Harry leans over and kisses the bit. The 
Businessmen shake their  heads, awed. 

Quincy 
(cont'd)
 Nineteen Ninety-One. Directional drilling through two miles of  
anthracite. They also said that couldn't be done. You did it. 
Incredible. 

Harry looks at Quincy strangely; this sure is a bizarre form of 
celebrity.

Quincy 
(cont'd)
 Ninteen Ninety-Three. The first hole over seventy thousand.  
Once again they said --

Golden Move it along, Quincy.

Quincy Right, sorry. Mister Stamper, you're the world's foremost 
expert in  deep drilling. You hold specialized patents in high 
speed bits, drilling fluids,  downhole motors Can I call you 
Harry? 

Harry Stick with Stamper.

Golden Well, Mister Stamper, we need you to drill a hole. It's in 
a difficult  place.

Harry I've drilled in them all.

Golden Not...this place. This is really out there. 
(beat)
 Space, Mister  Stamper.

Harry As in...outer?

SATELLITE PHOTOS OF THE ASTEROID come up on the screen --

Temple You've watched the news the last 24 hours? You heard about 
the meteor  shower? 
(Harry nods)
 What you don't know is that an asteroid is on a collision  
course with  Earth. If it hits us, Earth as we know it will be 
over. 

Golden We're manning a mission to that asteroid to plant a 
nuclear device in  it's core. To do that we need to drill an 
eight hundred foot hole. 

Harry looks at A.J. and Grace.

Harry A.J., is this guy shitting me?

A.J. I don't think they shit people at N.A.S.A., Harry --

Harry An eight hundred foot hole. On a moving asteroid. In space.

Golden All we want is your advice in perfecting our drilling arm, 
any help you  can provide. We'll pay your usual consultancy, of 
course.  

Harry Show me your rig.

INT. N.A.S.A. - RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT - DAY

Quincy leads Golden, Harry, A.J., Grace, and Clark through 
N.A.S.A.'s Research  and Development area. This place looks like 
"Q's" weapons shop from the James  Bond movies as funded by every 
company on the fortune 500 -- 

Huge, clinically clean, dominated by MASSIVE ROCKET ENGINES. 
TECHNICIANS in  white coats and hairnets work on a variety of 
equipment. 

TECHNICIANS hunch over a ROVER VEHICE, not the golf cart used on 
the moon. This  is low, squat, sturdy, with an enclosed airlocked 
passenger compartment. 

Quincy The "Armadillo" - our fourth generation rover. It carries 
a six-cell  solar engine with 824 horses. This was a joint 
venture with the Germans. 
(winks)
  It's designed by Porsche. 

Quincy motions to TWO TECHNICIANS. They roll over a ROBOTIC ARM 
on a gurney,  powered by an ELECTRIC MOTOR. The robotic arm is 
connected to an OIL DRILLING  BIT. 

Harry Where's the Kelly?

Quincy This baby works without one.

Harry How does it work?

Harry starts to inspect the bit.

Quincy It works through a series of complexly designed 
differential gears.

Harry's face tightens, as he studies the bit further --

Harry This is my Patent.

Quincy "Drilling Power Transfer Without Conventional Hydraulics," 
by Harry S.  Stamper. You registered it with the U.S. Patent 
Office last year. 

Harry You stole it.

Quincy We just borrowed it, Mister Stamper.

Quincy unpockets a remote control panel and presses a button. The 
drill bit  presses down into a block of concrete and begins to 
rapidly CHEW through it, as  Harry marvels at the realisation of 
his design.

Quincy 
(cont'd)
 We built this arm to mine ice from the moon -- greatest  
discovery in space in thirty years.

Harry What'd this cost?

Golden Ten million.

Quincy Twenty-our million.

Harry Boy, I'm in the wrong line of work. So, that's where my 
taxes go. For  thievin' incompetent, government employed rip-off 
artists?

A.J. No torque adjustment, no pressure release valve....a big 
hunk of junk.

Quincy We're working on that.

Harry What happens if you hit gas? You have three seconds. Drill 
faster, run  like hell, or pray. 
(beat)
 Time's up. You're dead., The rig just blew. 

Golden Gentlemen, gentlemen, wait a second. The crux of the 
matter....

Harry Hang on. I betcha everyone in this room has a PH.D.

Golden Or three....

Harry I left school after tenth grade. I earned my PH.D every day 
offshore  drilling holes. You can't get it in a book. Drilling 
holes is about instinct -  about smellin' it. Drillin' holes is 
an art. You want the crux of the matter?
(beat)
 You stole my  patent, and you don't have a goddamn idea how to 
use it. As for this piece o'  crap, don't insult me. 
(walks around the rig)
 I'll rebuild it - the right way - and drill the  hole for you. 

Grace Uhm, pop, could we discuss this...?

Harry Just give me a space suit.

Golden You won't need one. You're not going up.

Harry You don't have a choice. I think all you PH.D's know that.

Harry walks off. Grace and A.J. follow.

Golden 
(calling after Harry)
 Harry. Let's figure this out.

INT. N.A.S.A. - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Harry sits opposite Golden and Temple. Grace and A.J. stand 
behind him.

Harry First of all, you're going to buy my patent.

Temple Of course, completely in order. What is the price?

Harry Fifty million dollars.

Uncomfortable pause. Temple clears his throat.

Temple Mr. Stamper, this mission is to preserve the future of....

Harry You're right, too low. I'm still pissed. Seventy million.

Temple Done.

Harry looks to Grace.

Harry Give that money to my Greenpeace buddies. 
(smile)
 Told  you...complicated.

Harry goes to shake, pulls back --

Harry 
(cont'd)
 And I never want to pay taxes again.

Temple I'll call the I.R.S., try to uhm, explain the situation.

They begin to shake. Harry withdraws his hand.

Harry I have this great log cabin in Montana. It's kind of a  
nature...getaway...thing.

Temple You want us to buy that, too?

Harry No. I fly fish there. But the fly fishin's sucked ever 
since they put in  that goddamn hydro-electric dam. I want it 
gone by the time I get back. 

Temple reluctantly nods. They stand to shake, Harry pulls away 
again.

Harry 
(cont'd)
 Now about my crew.

Golden The deal was for you, not others.

Harry I'm only as good as the men I work with. The ones in those 
home movies  of yours.

Golden It's out of the question.

Harry half-smiles to Grace.

Golden 
(cont'd)
 Okay, who?

Harry :My chief tool pusher. You game A.J.? A.J. Wouldn't miss 
it, Harry.

Harry And my roughnecks, Roustabouts, and Rockhound?

Temple Rock what? Is that a dog?

Harry No. Just a meek, geek geophysicist.

Golden What kind of men are these?

INT. SUPERSTRETCH LIMOUSINE - DAY

Bennie, Chick 
(30's, a street philosopher)
, Max 
(35, hulky)
, TITO, and ROCKHOUND  
(small, wiry)
 are riding in high style. Chick is hanging out of the sun roof  
with his shirt off. Radio's on full blast. Rockhound's pouring 
whiskey from the  fancy decanters. 

Chick We're living LARGE!

Bennie 
(talking on a cellular phone)
 Give me nickels on Miami, Washington, San  Diego, and Green Bay. 
(listens)
 Quit whining. Last thing I need is to be friends  with my 
bookie. 
(listens, then angry)
 
(MORE)
 

Bennie 
(cont'd)
 Look, when the entire Mexican Army had Butch and the Sundance  
Kid trapped in that Hacienda, did they wait to die? Hell no. They 
went out guns  blazing. I live  by the code of that movie, man. 

Bennie hangs up the phone, he looks across from him at -- Tito 
Guevara, late  30's, stocky, tattooed, Latino, 
(reformed 118th Street L.A. o.g. gangbanger who  was rescued from 
the streets ten years back and put to work on a rig by Harry)
  is reading a book "Men are from Mars, Women are from Venus." 

Chick drops down into his seat, continues his heated discussion 
with Max.

Chick Charlie Bronson could kick Steve McQueen's ass and have 
enough left over  to duke it out with Burt Reynolds in his 
"Smokey and the Bandit" period. 

Max I'm glad you qualified that shit 'cause you know the Burt 
Reynolds of  "Deliverence" would have kicked Charlie's ass.  

Chick Burt was trouble in that flick.

Max What would you say the all-time, slam-bam, take-no-prisoners, 
kick-ass  Charlie Bronson movie is?

Chick All time? Well, let me think. "Dirty Dozen," the first 
"Death Wish." No,  no! That movie where he hunted the buffalo. I 
don't remember the name but he  hunted a buffalo and he said like 
three words during the whole picture. That's my  selection. 

Max Fine. The buffalo movie. That's your pick. You relly think 
that buffalo  Charlie could have thrown-down with the Steve 
McQueen form "Bullitt?" 

Chick He'da whooped his ass and then his father's. We'll settle 
this right  now. Rockhound? You heard the debate. You're the 
Supreme Court. What's the final  verdict? 

Rockhound Tough call. But for me though, one name -- Poncherello. 
Eric  Estrada. You know, "Chips."

Chick and Max just look at him. A beat. Then --

Max What did you ask him for? Guy makes his living looking at 
rocks.

The limo pulls over and stops. The DRIVER gets out and walks to 
the rear door.  Opens it.

EXT. N.A.S.A. - FRONT OF FACILITY - DAY

The Roughnecks get out in front of the JOHNSON SPACE CENTER. They 
stare up at  the familiar N.A.S.A. LOGO imprinted on the 
building. Chick and Bennie exchange  looks -- 

BEHIND THEM

A battered Ford pick-up pulls up, driven by 71 year-old "MAMA" 
MABEL BROWN.  Mabel's six foot-five, 375 pound son, BEAR, gets 
out of the car. 

Bear 'Bye, Mama.

Mabel Reginald, get over here and kiss your Mama goodbye.

Bear In front of the guys?

Mabel Never too old to kiss your Mama.

JIMBO, six-foot five, 375 pounds, bald, pulls up on a HARLEY 
DAVIDSON  motorcycle. He climbs off the bike.

Chick There ain't no oil in this place. What the hell are we 
doing here?

INT. JOHNSON SPACE CENTER - MEDICAL WING - DAY

Harry has just briefed his crew on the mission.

Bear ARE YOU OUT OF YOUR MIND?

Chick Harry, this is some "Star Wars" shit. This ain't for us.

Harry It's a job, like any other. Just a different location.

Max We work rigs. We understand rigs. We don't know dick about 
being  astronauts.

Rockhound 
(pointing)
 I might add that to get us up there they're going to have  to 
strap our asses on one of those rockets. That means fire, 
involuntary shit  release, and a slew of other stuff I can't hang 
with. 

JIMBO We don't have "The Right Stuff," know what I'm saying? 
(looking around)
  We're Roughnecks. 

Harry I'd rather die up there fighting this thing than sit  here 
waiting for it. 

Harry's line hangs in the air. Everyone exchanges looks.

Bear I don't like the idea of waiting around to croak. It's 
wimpy.

Chick If Harry-the-iron-ass is going, I'm going with him.

Bear Hell, I'm going just so I can say I went. 
(shrugs)
 Once we get up there,  it's making hole.

Tito I'm in.

INT. JOHNSON SPACE CENTER - EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY

Max, Chick, and Tito sit in HOSPITAL SMOCKS on two examination 
tables. They have  tattoos, long hair. A cigarette dangles from 
Tito's lips. AIR FORCE NURSES are  everywhere. A NURSE clips a 
SWATCH OF HAIR from each of the men. She comes to  Tito. He grabs 
her arm. Takes the scissors from her. 

Tito Nobody touches my hair but me.

He cuts a SWATCH of hair, gives it to her. A SECOND NURSE is in 
front of Max and  Tito.

Max You're not taking any more blood. You vampires already have 
enough to feed  your coven for a year.

Nurse 
(nasally-voiced)
 We need to know what substances you've recently  ingested.

Tito What, uhh, "substances" you talkin' about?

Nurse 
(matter of fact)
 Drugs.

Ma and Tito eye each other nervously. Head Nurse, HELGA, stands 
before Chick  with an ENAMA PROBE and a JAR OF VASELINE. 

Chick An Ena-WHAT?

Helga Enema.

Chick And you want to stick it where?

Helga sticks the ENEMA PROBE in a jar of VASELINE.

Chick 
(cont'd)
 No way, lady. I came here to drill.

Helga So did I.

INT. JOHNSON SPACE CENTER - PSYCHOLOGICAL TESTING CENTER - DAY

Chick sits before a hugely endowed but square female N.A.S.A. 
CLINICAL  PSYCHOLOGIST.

Psychologist Say the first two words that come to mind, beginning 
with each  letter.

Chick Bodacious and....Bountiful. 
(she holds up "S")
 Succulent and Sinful.

She holds up the letter "F" and HOLD ON CHICK'S REACTION.

INT. JOHNSON SPACE CENTER - EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY

Harry sits before the Chief Physician, DR. BANKS. Golden looks 
out the window.  Dr. Banks, dead-serious, flips through the 
medical and psychiatric test scores. 

Dr Banks Mr. Stamper, your men...are...take Mr. Chappel. I 
believe they call  him Chic.

Harry Charles, but if you call him that, he'll kill you.

Dr Banks 
(nervous laugh)
 I assume you're joking. 
(no response)
 Your men show  aggression, extreme maladjustment to their 
surroundings, anti-social behaviour  -- 

Harry With all due respect, Doctor, I don't know too army guys 
who are social  when someone is trying to jam a tube up their 
butt. 

Dr Banks Does your company have a drug testing program? These 
toxicology  reports are a throwback to the sixties. All show huge 
levels of nicotine and  alcohol. Three of the, four show illegal 
drugs. A couple I had to look up. One of them  had "Kematine" -- 
a very potent sedative. 

Harry A lot of people take sedatives.

Dr Banks This one is used on horses.

Harry I don't tell my men how to live their lives. They're with 
me to do a job  and they do it well.

Golden This is getting us nowhere. Can they fly, or not?

Dr Banks 
(flipping through physical records)
 Failed. Failed. Really failed.  Under the circumstances...
(locks eyes with Golden)
 They're the finest physical  specimens I've ever seen. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - LONGSHOT

Harry's crew walk together in newly issued N.A.S.A. jumpsuits. 
Bear and JIMBO  have ripped the sleeves and collars off their X-
Large suits. 

They walk past two N.A.S.A. mathematicians.

Mathematician 1 
(to mathematician 2)
 We're screwd.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

Temple and Golden standing there with their arms crossed, 
watching the motley  crew of Roughnecks. They're joined by 
U.S.A.F. test pilots COLONEL SHARP, a  young Chuck Yeager type, 
and LT. COLONEL LUCAS TRUMAN, 30's, rigid and muscular. 



Sharp I mean, they kind of look like Armstarong, Lovell, and 
Glenn. 
(turns,  soberly to Golden)
 So, my wife and little girls' lives are in their hands, sir? 

Golden We need to drill. Do you know how to drill, colonel? 
(beat)
 Neither do  I. They're going up.

Temple 
(pointing to his lapel)
 With my stars came the power to be blunt. These  drillers are 
not trained for this, Dan.

Truman shakes his head. Sharp eyes Golden, waiting for a 
response.

Golden General, it's our job to get them ready to go into space. 
They're there  to do the drilling. 
(beat, then)
 And Colonel Sharp, we all have families. 

A hard look from Sharp to Temple, as Golden walks away.

Temple 
(to Golden)
 If they can't drill this hole, my men are going to take  over.

INT. N.A.S.A. - RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT DAY

Quincy is face-to-face with Golden. TECHS work on the drilling 
arm in the b.g.  Harry and the Roughtnecks are across the room. 

Harry That Armadillo car. Get it in here.

In rolls the Armadillo, two TECHNICIANS pushing it. Harry and the 
guys look at  it. Quincy shows it off.

Quincy Pressurised titanium alloy cab. Airlocked life support. 
The chassis's  by General Motors. Heavy duty suspension and six 
wheel drive. 

Harry How were you going to power your drill arm?

Quincy Turbo-jet engine fuelled by Kerosene and liquid oxygen.

Harry I need to be able to start and stop. I need different 
speeds, and I need  reverse.

Quincy A jet engine can't do that.

Harry It can if it's hooked up to a clutch. A.J., get me a Mack 
truck  transmission.

Quincy That's so simple it's brilliant.

Harry I'm a simple man. But don't underestimate me.

A.J. Chick, Max! Mack truck tranny!

Chick and Max hurry off. A.J. smiles at Harry.

INT. JOHNSON CTR - ASTRONAUT TRAINING - WORKROOM - DAY

Harry, A.J., Bennie, Chick, Max, and Tito sit before Quincy, who 
demonstrates a  series of components on the N.A.S.A. SPACE SUIT. 

Quincy The new generation EMU - Extravehicular Mobility Unit - 
provides oxygen  for seven hours, a pressurised enclosure, and 
temperate control. The gloves and  helmet slide  on and lock with 
a twist, like this. The cap is worn underneath. It  contains a 
mike and headphones for two-way communication. We'll be able to 
see  you from a small  video cam mounted inside the helmet. The 
Undergarment has 300 feet  of plastic tubing circulating cooling 
water. Owen... 

OWEN THE TAILOR, five foot nothing & bald, stands in front of the 
men.

Owen These are made for men 5'8" to 6'2", between 140 and 200 
pounds. All of  you fit within those parameters - thank God we 
won't have to do any  re-tailoring.... 

Owen stops because --

Bear and Jimbo stand in the doorway --

JIMBO Yo. This where we get our suits?

Bear Sorry, we're late. Doc said we had... What do we got?

JIMBO Cholesterol difficulties. Said we gotta enter "The Zone."

Bear Shit, the only zone I know is the one around my mama's 
grill.

JIMBO 
(holding up form)
 But we're approved.

Owen looks at the human mountains standing before hi, and then at 
the tiny EMU  suit. Alterations will be necessary. 

INT. JOHNSON CENTER - ASTRONAUT TRAINING - MORNING

Clark briefs Harry and the mildly attentive Roughnecks. Sharp, 
Truman, CO-PILOTS  MEGAN WATTS 
(30's, tough as nails)
 and STAN WESTON stand in the back along with  N.A.S.A. Engineers 
JACK CROSS and RAYMOND SEARS. 

Clark United States astronauts train for eighteen months. You 
have nine days.  Officers Sharp, Truman, Watts and Weston are 
your military instructors and the  only pilots to have flown the 
spacecraft. 
(beat)
 Each is a combat decorated officer  and among the finest men and 
women we have in the service. Pay attention to  them. 

Sharp We spend six months on emergency training - we're throwing 
that out. If  we fail, everyone dies. Game over. That's a heavy 
load but it's ours to carry.  The purpose of this is to train you 
in the physical and mental rigors of working  in a weightless 
enviroment so that you will not panic. So you can do your jobs.  
(beat)
 You will vomit.  Your eyes will be sucked into the back of your 
heads. You'll be so  tired you can't eat but that won't matter 
'cause you'll be so sore you can't  take a dump. By the  
way...good morning. 

INT. NEUTRAL BUOYANCY TANK - DAY

Splash, Splash. Harry and the Roughnecks descend underwater. They 
look like  Michelin Men in their thick space suits. Navy divers 
are around them as they are  lined up. 

Through the underwater speaker, WE HEAR a trainer giving them 
instructions for  their weightless aerobic training. WE HEAR a 
loud, embarrassing gastric sound  from Bear's suit. 

Bear Houton, we have a problem. That is some vicious methane.

Harry gives a "shut the fuck up" look. Time passes as the guys 
are dying,  HUFFING and PUFFING. One by one, they reach 
exhaustion. A cabled harness hoists  each out.

INT. JOHNSON CENTER - CARDIO LAB - DAY

Harry and his team, in T-shirts and running shorts, jog on a 
series of  threadmills, wired to EKG machines, nostrils taped 
shut, breathing tubes locked  in their mouths. EXT. N.A.S.A. T-38 
JET HANGER - DAY

A gleaming spit-shine hanger full of fifteen N.A.S.A. T-38 
fighter jets. Our  drill team walks up looking worn out. They are 
met at the open hanger door by  pilots CHUCK JR., Vietnam vet, 
leatherneck-take-no-pussy-bullshit-type-of-guy  and HAMMER. 

Chuck Jr. On this mission, they tell me you will experience the 
worst G-Forces  in the history of flight. It's like an elephant 
sitting on your chest. So, I  intend to flip you, spin you, splat 
your bodies till your bones hurt. Now load up and  enjoy the 
flight. 

The Roughnecks, wearing flight suits and helmets, board the 
planes. Harry does  not like the look of these things. Bear is 
trying to figure out how to fit  inside. 

Bear Thing's made for a child - like my kid's car seat.

Chuck Jr. and Hammer walk up to a nervous Harry.

Chuck Jr. What's the problem, Texas tough guy?

Harry I've got a thing about flying.

Chuck Jr. Not good for an astronaut. 
(looks to Hammer)
 Hammer, go easy, don't  rip his guts out.

Hammer Sure thing, Chuck.

INT. JET FIGHTER.

Harry plastered to the seat, MOANING so scared he can't puke. The 
plane  barrel-rolls and dives straight to the ground. Harry is 
GRUNTING and sweating  trying to stay conscious. 

EXT. N.A.S.A. T-38 JET HANGER - DAY

The T-38's are pulling up and letting the drill crew out. They 
walk back with  white sweat, soaked faces and wobbly legs. Harry 
exits the plane. 

Harry I hate to fly. I hate to fly. I hate it so much.

Harry leans over to puke.

INT. N.A.S.A. T-38 JET HANGER - DAY

The Roughnecks walking to the T-38 Hanger. Sharp stands on the 
stairway to the  707 and calls everyone to attention.

Sharp Trainees, AT EASE 
(in command)
 We are not done here. We're taking you  for a little ride. This 
bird will climb to 40 thousand feet and drop to 10  thousand feet 
to give  you the feeling of weightlessness for 30 seconds. 
Welcome to  N.A.S.A.'s Vomit Comet. INT. VOMIT COMET

The plane drops. The Roughnecks lift off inside. Everyone's 
flying around the  cabin. It's a disaster. Guys bump heads. Bear 
floats like a beached whale. Jimbo  rams the roof. Hary hold a 
barf bag as he floats. An alarm SOUNDS, then the  plane levels 
off, the guys go slamming into the floor. 

INT. JOHNSON SPACE CENTER BATHROOM

Tracking past a row of stalls, WE SEE the soles of a pair of 
shoes peeking out.  Then another pair, another, and another over 
the multiple sounds of guts being  tossed into the toilet. 

Golden, Clark, and Sharp stand outside the stalls.

Golden This is like putting the Hell's Angels in space.

INT. N.A.S.A. RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT

Harry and the Roughnecks are welding the Armadillo, working tough 
and hard.

INT. N.A.S.A. LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT

The Roughnecks are getting dressed.

Max 
(to Chick)
 We're going to go pound some brews where they have a lot of  
sweaty, naked women. You in?

Chick 
(shakes head)
 No. I got to take care of something.

The Roughnecks walk out, leaving Chick behind.

INT N.A.S.A. CAR - NIGHT

Driven by a uniformed N.A.S.A. TECH, Chick pulls up to a house in 
a residential  neighbourhood. He sits there with a beat, unsure 
of what to do. 

EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT

Chick walks up to the house, KNOCKS. DENISE WILLIAMS answers the 
door.

Chick Hey, Denise.

Denise What do you want, Chick?

A big six-year old boy, TOMMY, runs up behind his mom.

Tommy Who is it, Mommy?

Chick looks at Tommy, smiles.

Denise It's um...just a salesman, honey.

Chick Hi.

Tommy 
(looking straight up)
 You look like big foot.

Chick kneels, extends his hand. Tommy smiles and shakes it. Chick 
doesn't want  to let go.

Chick I got a feeling you're going to be pretty big yourself. 
Denise Go  inside and play, Tommy.

Tommy Okay, mommy. 'Bye, Big Foot.

Chick 'Bye, Tommy.

Chick watches Tommy run off. He looks to Denise.

Denise What was I supposed to tell him? We've got a life here 
now, Chick, with  someone we can depend on.

Chick What I did before was wrong. Every day of my life I regret 
it. I can see  you've got a good thing going, Denise, I'm not 
trying to mess that up. But this  thing's come my  way and I got 
the chance to do something really right. 

Denise This another one of your scams, Chick?

Chick It's no scam. You might just be proud of me.

Denise opens the door a little wider, SHE SEES the car in the 
driveway. The  N.A.S.A. logo stencilled on the door. The N.A.S.A. 
Tech waiting. 

Denise What's going on, Chick?

Chick I can't tell you now. But if it comes out good, I'll be 
back. 
(beat)
  Then maybe you'd consider telling Tommy I'm not a...salesman. 
It's good to see  you. You look really  beautiful. 

Chick turns and walks away.

Denise Hey, Chick. 
(Chick turns)
 You be careful.

INT. LUCKY LAURIE'S - NIGHT

A seedy Houston drinking hole. All the Roughnecks sit at the bar. 
The bar is  littered with EMPTY MUGS AND SHOTGLASSES. A WOMAN 
looks at Bennie. 

Woman What are you boys doin' down here in good 'ol Houston?

Bennie 
(burps)
 We're in astronaut training.

This gets the reaction you'd expect.

INT. JOHNSON CENTER - RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT - LATE NIGHT

Harry and Quincy go over a list of stuff to order and logistical 
problems.  N.A.S.A. Tech rushes into the room.

N.A.S.A. Tech Space Command spotted more incoming.

Quincy 
(springing up)
 Where' it headed? How big?

N.A.S.A. Tech Don't know.

They start to run out of the room. Harry follows.

INT. ROCKET ENGINE DEVELOPMENT ROOM

The camera follows up a long ladder to a huge rocket bell housing 
where A.J. and  Grace are kissing passionately. They notice Harry 
and Quincy, and the other  Techs heading for Mission Control. 
Harry locks eyes with A.J. He doesn't like  it. A.J. and Grace 
know something is up. They follow Harry and the others into  
Mission Control. 

INT. MISSION CONTROL - LATE NIGHT

The room is lit up. Men are scrambling. Phones and satellite 
charts pop up.  Tracking devices PING. Golden on top of the 
chaos. A TRACKING TECH plots on a  map. Clark stands over a 
N.A.S.A. TECH reading a computer screen. 

Golden Projected impact tracking. I need stats!

Tracking Tech Eastern Asian Hemisphere... someplace...ETA 17 
minutes.

N.A.S.A. Tech We have confirmation. The incoming is about the 
size of the  Astrodome.

Clark We've got to warn.

Golden Warn who? The whole South Pacific?

Golden, with lack of sleep and stress, falls back into a chair. 
He closes his  eyes, opens them -- finding Harry in the upper 
Mission Control Deck. They lock  eyes for a long moment. 

INT. SHANGHAI - ESTABLISHING - NIGHT

The city ablaze in neon. The harbour, floating junksmanned by 
Chinese merchants.  A loud sonic boom CRACKS in the sky. There's 
a BRIGHT FLASH in the sky. Night  becomes day for two seconds. 

The world slows down, motion creeps. The bright FLASH catches the 
face of a  little BOY reaching out for his father's hand. The 
asteroid SHRIEKS down,  hitting the harbour's surface in a red 
hot FLASH-BOILED at 100 thousand degrees. 

INT. MISSION CONTROL - NIGHT

The room is silent. Reports are starting to come in about the 
devastation.  Golden walks up to Harry who is standing with Grace 
and A.J. He pulls Harry  aside. 

Golden Stamper, answer me one question - have you ever let anyone 
down?

We go close on Harry's face. Searing flashbulbs popping, WIDEN TO

INT. WHITE HOUSE PRESS ROO - NIGHT

WE SEE him from behind as he addresses the massive crowd. The 
U.S. PRESIDENT  stands before a throng of reporters.

PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS

Papers headlines, CNN reporters flash on screens. Images of 
people watching the  news in bars, at home. A NEW YORK POST slams 
down on the pavement, the headline -  SHANGHAI DISASTER, MASSIVE 
DEATH TOLL RISING.

INT. SOMEPLACE IN KENTUCKY - HOLDING CELL - DAWN

Jimbo is talking to an F.B.I. AGENT who is on the other side of 
the bars holding  a newspaper.

Jimbo If it's over then why aren't you lettin' us out of this 
goddamn cell?

F.B.I. Agent Be real soon, son.

The agent flips the newspaper into the holding cell and walks 
away.

Jimbo Don't walk away, I want to talk to my lawyer. You hear me?

Pearl 
(refering to the newspaper)
 This says that the asteroid came from the  Southern Hemisphere.

Theo Southern Hemisphere?

Pearl No kidding. It's a big sky - they want people to look the 
other way.

INT. MANHATTEN - TAXI CAB

Stu the cabbie is riding with a WALL STREET GUY.

Stu Kennedy lied about the Bay of Pigs, Nixon...Watergate, say no 
more.  Clinton. One word. 'Women.' If I know one thing; ALL 
PRESIDENTS LIE. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - TRAINING ROOM - MORNING

Morning after the devastating disaster in Shanghai. Harry walks 
into the quiet  room. Harry's all business. 

Harry Forty thousand people died last night. But I guess that 
didn't concern  any of you. I hope you all had a good time last 
night. 

The Roughnecks look around. They know there were wrong.

Chick I gotta tell you...I'm scared.

Harry Well, you should be scared. We all should be. 'Cause if we 
fail, they  say the Earth will die.

Harry sits down, looks out the window at N.A.S.A. Techs working 
in the room down  below.

Harry You think these N.A.S.A. guys are a bunch of clean-cut 
pussies, that's  it. They can out think you, they can outrun you. 
This job, gentlemen, is as real  as it gets. I need every one of 
you. 
(he looks them in the eye)
 If you're not up to it,  then walkout of that door. 

Finally. Theo and Pearl, frustrated, go to the TWO-WAY MIRROR, 
blocking Jimbo  from view.

Theo I'm hungry! When're we gonna eat?

Pearl I have p.m.s.!! I need some ibuprofen!

Jimbo grabs Randy's legal pad and writes:

HELP!! BIG ASTEROID GOING TO HIT EARTH. COORDINATES 712 BY 345.

Randy stares at the message.

Randy Okay, I'm done here!

The door opens. Two F.B.I. AGENTS lead Randy out. Jimbo looks at 
Theo and Pearl.

Jimbo He flunked the bar three times.

INT. N.A.S.A. - RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

-- Harry shows Quincy his DRAWINGS of the DRILLING ARM - the way 
Harry wants it.

-- Harry, A.J. and Quincy work with the TURBO PROP ENGINE, 
transforming it into  a JET FUEL GENERATOR.

Quincy We'll run your liquid oxygen from the shuttle through a 
tube into the  intake manifold. No problem.

A.J. I figured out how to bring up the slag. Direct the jet 
turbine's exhaust  down the drill pipe. It'll blow the stuff 
right up the hole. 

Harry Good, A.J. Good.

-- Chick, Bennie, Bear, Jumbo welding new pieces of the DRILLING 
ARM together.  The Roughnecks have changed. Chick and Bennie now 
have crew-cuts. 

-- A.J., Harry, Max and Tito build the drilling arm.

EXT. ARIZONA - SHUTTLE TAKE OFF AREA

TWO X-71 SHUTTLES in the hanger. TECHNICIANS scramble around, 
preparing the  shuttles for the mission.

Harry 
(points)
 From all of your intel, the deepest fault line is here. This is  
my sweet spot. If I can get a clean hole in there, She'll blow in 
half.... 

Golden ....and the two pieces will slide right past us. You 
cannot shatter it.  Getting hit with 20 smaller asteroids is as 
bad as one big one. You have to  drill, plant the nuke,  lift 
off, and detonate -- all before the asteroid reaches this  
position. 
(demonstrates position)
 You have eight hours. Remember it. You must  detonate by this 
point or,  the two halves will hit us. 

Harry nods and walks off.

Sharp Drill an eight-hundred foot hole in eight hours? Is that 
possible?

Harry doesn't like to be questioned --

Harry You just worry about getting me on that rock, Colonel. Let 
me worry  about the drilling.

A moment of conflict between them.

EXT. JOHNSON CENTE - ASTRONAUT TRAINING - DAY

ONE OF THE ARMADILLOS, complete with drilling arm, sits at the 
bottom of the  tank. Harry and six Roughnecks are already at the 
bottom, in pressure suits and  helmets. 

Golden, Quincy, Clark, Sharp, Truman, and all of the N.A.S.A. 
BRASS, observe.

A.J. is the last to enter the tank.

INT. N.A.S.A. NEUTRAL BUOYANCY TANK - UNDERWATER

A.J. descend to the tank's bottom. Harry, Chick, Bennie, Max and 
Tito are in  bulky white pressure suits. Jimbo and Bear wear the 
largest pressure suits ever  made. They talk through their helmet 
radio links. 

One drilling arm starts turning. The Roughnecks turn toward a 
STACK OF 20 FOOT  LONG STAINLESS STEEL DRILLING PIPES on the 
tank's bottom. ABOVE WATER - SIDE OF  TRAINING TANK

Golden hits a stopwatch.

Golden 
(into intercom)
 Go.

INT. N.A.S.A. NEUTRAL BUOYANCY TANK - UNDERWATER

Bear and Jimbo grab a pipe string and handle onto the mock-up 
drill arm. They  clamp it on. Bennie and Chick screw a drill bit 
onto the pipe string. They are  good, very good. The work with 
the manic intensity of a pit crew at Indy. 

Harry Done!

ABOVE WATER - SIDE OF TANK

Golden hits his stopwatch. Smiles. The N.A.S.A. Brass is 
impressed.

Golden These guys are fast. Harry, interior gauge check.

INT. N.A.S.A. NEUTRAL BUOYANCY TANK - UNDERWATER

Harry We're on A.J.

A.J. Let's see what this baby can do.

Harry and A.J. move the Armadillo's AIRLOCK DOOR. It has an 
exterior open/close  button. Harry punches it. The side door 
opens. Harry enters, then A.J. 

INT. ARMADILLO - UNDERWATER

Harry and A.J., still underwater, climb inside. Harry presses the 
PRESSURIZATION  button. Simulating pressurisation in space, the 
water in the cab is blown out,  and air WHOOSHES IN. 

Harry and A.J. sit dripping in the watertight cab. Through the 
front window WE  SEE the other Roughnecks in the tank. Harry 
unlocks his neck seals. Pulls off  his helmet. 

Harry Lose the helmet, A.J.

A.J. snaps out of it. His hands go instinctively to the helmet 
and in one  motion...CLICK. It's off.

Harry 
(clicks radio)
 We're in. Run the simulation.

The interior PRESSURE GUGE NEEDLES and MONITORS 
(engine torque, drill direction,  etc.)
 start bobbing. The drill starts to cut into a BLOCK OF CONCRETE. 

Golden 
(V.O)
 How's she look?

Harry Torque adjuster's good. Fuel level good. A.J., downhole 
pressure?

A.J. We can do better. I'm increasing the RPM's to seven 
thousand. We can get  more torque.

Golden 
(V.O)
 Negative, A.J. Don't exceed ix thousand. Not on this run.

A.J. Relax. I built this thing. She's got more in her. Increasing 
the RPM's.

Golden 
(V.O)
 Negative, A.J. A.J. increases the RPM's. The gauge starts to 
rise. The N.A.S.A. Brass shifts  uneasily in their seats. They're 
not accoutomed to seeing their astronauts  disobey orders. 

Golden 
(V.0)
 
(cont'd)
 A.J., shut the Armadillo down now

A.J. We can push it, further. Let's see what she can do.

Suddenly, the RPM''s shoot into the red. A red siren spins in the 
control room.  The Armadillo SHAKES violently. The DRILLING BIT 
grinds to nothing. The  Armadillo BLOWS a tranny. 

Harry's eyes close. He's pissed.

IN THE CONTROL ROOM

The N.A.S.A. Brass looks to Golden. One of them shakes their 
head. Sharp and  Golden exchange a look. Sharp shakes his head. 
INSIDE THE TANK

A.J. presses a button and the cabin, simulating 
"depressurisation" in space,  begins to fill with water.

INT. NEUTRL BUOYANCY TANK - SIDE OF TANK - DAY

Everyone around him just watches, as A.J. climbs out of the tank. 
After a  minute, A.J. looks up, sees all the eyes in the room on 
him. 

EXT. CREW QUARTERS - NIGHT

Harry is outside, smoking a Coheba. Harry runs his hand over a 
SMALL METAL MEDAL  that hangs from his neck. Golden approaches. 

Golden A.J.'s off the team. We need a list of names from you to 
fill the slot.

Harry A.J. would be the first name on my list.

Golden We don't want independent thinkers. And we don't need 
heroes. We need a  team.

Harry You have to have confidence in the men you send up. I 
understand that.  But I'm the one that has to land on that rock. 
Not you. 
(firm)
 I pick my own  team. 

Golden One shot. Pull him in line or send him home.

INT . HUB OF ROCKET SIMULATOR - NIGHT

A.J. and Grace are there talking. Grace is on A.J.'s lap.

A.J. I pushed it, I screwed up.

Grace These astronauts train for years for what you're training 
for in a few  days.

A.J. I don't know why I didn't just listen to them.

Grace So, tomorrow you listen.

A.J. and Grace share a look.

A.J. I love you, Grace.

A N.A.S.A. Tech approaches.

N.A.S.A. Technician Harry wants to see you.

INT. DESIGN AND PROTOTYPE ROOM - NIGHT

Harry and A.J. stand in the centre of a high-tech supply room. 
SPARE PARTS from  shuttles, PROTOTYPES and WORK TOOLS are 
everywhere. 

Harry You tell me what the hell you think you're doing?

A.J. I'm trying to work with the team.

Harry Bullshit. You're trying to lead this team. You're trying to 
be me.  You're not me.

A.J. What do you want? You want me to quit?

Harry If you can't bury this cowboy shit, yeah, I want you to 
quit.

A.J. I don't have to prove anything to anybody, Harry.

Harry I listen to N.A.S.A., you listen to me. That's the chain. 
Either you  follow it, or you're done.

A.J. I'll follow it.

Harry I stood up for you, because I've made a life of proving 
people wrong.

Harry's hand slides down to the medal hanging from his neck.

Harry 
(cont'd)
 When I was about your age, I was in Galveston, Texas. I scraped  
together some money, bought some old equipment, a little land. I 
set up a rig  and drilled my first hole. Then I sat there and 
watched her soak up the sun for six  months - waiting for this 
baby to pop. Everybody told me to quit. I wouldn't  listen. My 
wife ran off with a drill-rigger, left me with Grace. Everybody 
in town thought I  was a fool. But I stayed with it. And in the 
last hour of the last day, she  popped. She spit out that black 
gold and I danced in it like a wild Indian. 
(reflective )
 I  captured the magic 
(holding medal)
 This is the last piece of pipe that struck  gold that day. 

Harry takes off the medal. Sets it on the table. He grabs a 
cutting vice and  cuts the medal in two perfect halves. He hands 
one half to A.J. 

Harry 
(cont'd)
 Here, take it up there.

QUICK MONTAGE

Inside the neutral buoyancy tank -- Harry's crew goes through all 
DRILLS one  final time 
(final mission checks)
 in quick succession. Everything runs  perfectly. The Armadillo 
is rebuilt and shown functioning without error. A.J.  works as 
part of the team. 

INT. JOHNSON SPACE CENTER - DAY

The hour of the mission. The two teams sit in the orange N.A.S.A. 
flight  pressure suits. Golden enters and stands before the room. 

Golden In the book of Revalations, the Bible speaks of a final 
day on Earth,  when all mankind shall perish, shall cease to 
exist. This day is known as  Armageddon. 
(firm)
 Right  now, that day conflicts with six billion schedules. 
(beat)
 For the  first time in the history of this planet, s species 
possesses the technology to  prevent it's own  extinction. 
(beat)
 I've been with N.A.S.A. my entire adult life.  Eleven years as 
an astronaut, another fifteen on the ground at Mission Control.  
Twenty-six years I've had  to answer one question -- why? Why 
more money? Why the race for  space? Why do we need to know what 
is up there? 
(beat)
 When we come through  this, I'll take  comfort in the fact that 
I won't ever have to answer those  questions again. You are our 
warriors up there. You are our last hope. God be  with you. 

The crew stands......

EXT. JOHNSON SPACE CENTER - RUNWAY - DAY

Two sleek BLACK LEAR JETS are parked on the runway. Harry studies 
them. Grace  approaches.

Harry You know I was thinking, Gracie. Over the years, I should 
have patted  you on the back more....

Grace Dad, you don't need --

Harry No father has ever been prouder of his child, Gracie. I 
want you to know  that.

Grace's reaction makes it clear that Harry has never said 
anything like this  before.

Grace I love you, Dad.

Harry I love you too, Gracie.

Grace 
(as they hug)
 Keep an eye on A.J. for me.

Harry climbs up the metal stairs --

A.J. and the rest of Harry's crew comes out of the building. A.J. 
moves to Grace  as she watches her father disappear into the jet. 

A.J. Excuse me. 
(Grace turns)
 You're really insanely gorgeous and I was jost  sort of 
wondering if you -- 

Grace I'm engaged. But my father hasn't given him his blessing so 
you might  still have a chance. 
(smiles, then serious)
 Promise me you won't do anything  stupid up there.

A.J. nods. They kiss passionately. Harry's crew sees this and 
applauds. Grace  blushes, embarrassed.

A.J. I love you, Grace.

Grace I love you. Come back, Okay?

Harry's crew boards LEAR JET 2. A.J. starts toward LEAR JET 1. 
Grace watches him  walk away, eyeing his suit.

Grace A.J.--

A.J. 
(turning)
 Yeah?

Grace When you get back, ask them if you can kep the suit 
(winks)
 It's kind of  sexy.

EXT. ARIZONA DESERT - BY SHUTTLE FREEDOM

The cone-shaped noses of the two X-71's are towering silhouettes 
against the  sun. Massive CRAWLERS move the shuttles to the 
launch tower. 

EXT. SHUTTLES FREEDOM & INDEPENDENCE LAUNCH - DAY

Seen from a distance as silhouettes behind a sun-soaked sky, 
sixteen figures  walk toward us. As they grow closer, WE SEE the 
intense game faces of Harry,  A.J., Bennie, Chick, Jumbo, Tito, 
Rockhound, Max and others approaching the  launch site. They look 
like N.A.S.A.'s version of the "Dirty Dozen." 

Harry carries a LARGE MYSTERIOUS METAL CASE, that we've not seen 
before now.

INT. LAUNCH TOWER ELEVATOR - LATER

Harry exits the elevator and start to walk to the CATWAL to the 
Freedom shuttle.  Harry carries his suitcase.

N.A.S.A. Tech 1 Sir, was that case authorised for transport?

N.A.S.A. Tech 2 Our weight to fuel ratio's calibrated to the 
kilogram, sir.  How much does that weigh?

Harry Sixty pounds.

N.A.S.A. Tech 1 That can't go up with you, sir.

Harry Wait here.

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - AFTERNOON

Harry enters the cabin. N.A.S.A.'s crack seven-member "Strap-in-
Team" goes to  work. Harry's crew are outfitted with their 
HELMETS and CHUTE PACKS. Each step  is methodical, each piece of 
equipment is checked and rechecked. 

Harry Hey you. Yeah you. Come here.

A YOUNG N.A.S.A. TECH approaches. Harry gestures at a row of 
METAL COMPONENTS  housed in the wall.

Harry What's all this crap?

N.A.S.A. Technician 
(pointing to various)
 Multi-track C.D. player.  Anti-gravity hand washer, utensil 
washer, and micro-wave oven. 
(proud)
 We worked  hard to make the X-71 feel  more like home. 

Harry just looks at the kid.

EXT. ARIZONA DESERT - BY SHUTTLE FREEDOM - DAY

Metal components one after the other come out of the shuttle 
hatchway and SLAM  into a heap on the lake bed. Harry then 
appears in the hatchway. 

Harry We don't need music and we don't mind dirty utensils.

Harry picks up his LARGE METAL CASE and ducks back inside the 
Freedom. The  N.A.S.A Techs stare at the ruined components at 
their feet. 

INT. MISSION CONTROL - DUSK

Golden and Clark prepare for the launch.

N.A.S.A. Tech 
(into intercom)
 T-minus six minutes and counting.

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT - DUSK

Sharp and Watts settle in. MAJORS PITTS and FISK, two stern Army 
demolition  experts, finish tying down their equipment.

Mission Control 
(V.O)
 Roger, Independence and Freedom, auto ground launch  sequencer 
commencing.

Sharp looks at Pitts and Fisk

Sharp You two ready?

Pitts 
(enthusiastically)
 AIRBORNE!

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL - DUSK

Golden, Clark and the N.A.S.A. Techs study the CENTRAL BOARD as 
final  preparations for take-off commence.

Technician Shuttles Freedom and Independence you are cleared for 
lift off.

EXT. ARIZONA DESERT - SHUTTLE TAKE OFF ZONE - DUSK

The ground TREMBLES like an earthquake. EXHAUST BILLOWS out of 
the ROCKET  BOOSTERS, filling frame. Shuttles Freedom and 
Independence ROCKET OFF from dual launch pads, STREAKING  BETWEEN 
CAMERA, climbing to the heavens.

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT - DUSK

Sharp and Watts flip switches, check gauges.

Sharp Instituting roll manoeuvre. We have S.R.B. Sep, over.

INT N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL - DUSK

Technician You are a 'go' for ET separation.

EXT. UPPER ATMOSPHERE - DUSK

Freedom and Independence scream away from Earth, dropping their 
booster  canisters.

EXT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - DUSK

Harry, Chick and the others experience their first G-Forces.

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL - DUSK

Clark Lookin' real good, Freedom.

Golden When you meet the Russian, you might want to go easy on 
the guy. He  just broke the record for the longest solo - 
thirteen months, seven days. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM

Chick 
(to Harry)
 Thirteen months, seven days. 
(beat)
 What the hell has he been  doing all by himself?

INT. RUSSIAN MIR STATION

Life inside, like the cluttered glove-box of an old car. George 
Michael's  "Freedom" plays on a piped-in sound system. COSMONAUT 
LEV ANDROPOV dances and  sings. 

Lev FREEDOM! FREEDOM! GOT TO GIVE WHAT IT TAKES....Hello Yankees! 
I love you  America. 
(reading from English book)
 Would you prefer an appetiser or aperitif? 

EXT. RUSSIAN MIR SPACE STATION

PULL OUT of the MIR's window to see Lev dancing with joy. He's 
celebrating the  forthcoming arrival.

PULL FURTHER BACK to catch a wider view of the Russian multi-
module Space  Station -- a white winged steel seagull.

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM

Through the cockpit window, the BLUENESS of Earth's atmosphere 
becomes the  BLACKNESS of space.

INT. MISSION CONTROL

Clark Freedom, Independence. You're looking good. Prepare to 
start docking  procedures at the MIR.

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM

Sharp addresses the crews of both shuttles over the radio --

Sharp Listen up -- the MIR will be spinning to give us gravity so 
we can work  faster. You might feel queasy or dizzy. We'll dock, 
transfer the fuel, then  detach from the MIR.  Fast and safe. 
This stuff is very volatile. 

INT. RUSSIAN MIR SPACE STATION - DOCKING PORT

Lev is working feverishly, running highly insulated liquid oxygen 
and hydrogen  PROPELLANT TRANSFER HOSES from the MIR's several 
LABORATORY and LIVING MODULES  to the MIR's twin docking ports. 

A BLUE INDICATOR LIGHT FLASHES. Lev looks out of the MIR's 
portside window. His  eyes light up. He smiles.

EXT. SPACE - LOW EARTH ORBIT - MIR DOCKING PORTS

Freedom and Independence approach the MIR station. The MIR is T-
shaped, with  TWIN DOCKING PORTS at each end of the T's crossbar. 
Freedom begins docking at  one end., Independence at the other. 

INT. SHUTTLES FREEDOM/INDEPENDENCE - AIRLOCK PORT TO MIR

Truman Fuel teams prepare to unload.

A RED LIGHT 
(unsafe)
 turns GREEN 
(safe)
. The docking port's HATCHWHEEL spins,  and the door slides open. 
Harry, Sharp, Watts, Chick, A.J., Bennie, and Truman  enter the 
MIR. 

INT. MIR SPACE STATION - DOCKING MODULE

The TEAM comes through the docking module and out pops Lev, 
hanging upside down  in frame.

Lev HELLO YANKEES! Welcome to the home of me, Cosmonaut Lev 
Andropov. 
(MORE)


On a wall, A COMPUTER BOARD that monitors the fuel transfer is 
filled with GREEN  LIGHTS.

INT. CENTRAL ROOM - CENTER HUB OF MIR

Harry, Bennie, and Lev are talking in the combination kitchen/ 
rec room of the  MIR -- a little bigger than a walk-in closet. 
Lev grabs a VIDEO CAMERA and  starts video-taping Harry and 
Bennie. 

Lev I hear rumour on radio. My country broke. No steaks in 
freezer. They plan  to sell me and the MIR 
(moving in closer, conspiratorial)
 Can you confirm this? 

Bennie We wouldn't know. What's the camera?

Lev Oh, I also di-rec-tor. Russian cinema. MIR movies. Each has 
title.

Lev grabs remote control. On a large TELEVISION screen VARIOUS 
IMAGES OF LEV  appear.

Lev "Lev loves cargo." "Lev sleeps." "Lev prepares for 
Americans." "Lev gets  bored so he gets drunk." Funny but...too 
long. 

Bennie Looks like you have a lot of free time on your hands.

Lev Yeah. I alone by myself.

Watts comes into the room. The first woman Lev has seen in a 
very, very long  time. Lev moves the camera all over her. 

Lev Hello, fellow space colleague.

Watts nods.

Watts I'll be in the docking port.

Lev Please allow me to escort you. 
(as they walk out)
 You California girl?

INT. MIR SPACE STATION - REAR MODULES

Harry and Bennie enter the MIR's rearmost module. Two propellant 
hoses run into  TWIN PROPELLANT OUTPUT VALVES on a rear panel. 
Bennie's eyes move to a LAUNDRY  LINE. BOXERS hang from the line. 

Bennie This Lev guy is a little off.

On the computer board, a small RED LIGHT replaces the GREEN 
LIGHT. Then another.  No one notices.

INT. MIR STATION - DOCKING PORTS

CAMERA FOLLOWS MICROSCOPIC AEROSOL BUBBLES OF LIQUID OXYGEN 
(MACRO SHOT)
  DRIPPING from a valve onto a COMPUTER CIRCUIT BOARD. 

INT. MIR - FUEL STORAGE

THE GAUGE STARTS TO rise. A.J. WATCHES. One hundred eighty-
five...190...195...

A.J. 
(into intercom)
 Lev, the pressure's climbing.

INT. MIR CORRIDOR


(EXTREME MACRO)
 The Liquid Oxygen oozes into the circuit board. Surgeon-like  
microscopic camera tracks it under the keys, reaching a COMPUTER 
SWITCH. It  SPARKS. 

INT. DOCKING PORT

Lev, Sharp, and Chick are walking toward the shuttles. The 
ELECTRICITY in the  MIR FLUTTERS. Lev stops. Sharp stops. Lev 
looks over his shoulder toward the  central hub. A chill runs 
down his spine. DOLLY INTO LEV'S EYES - 

Lev 
(whispering)
 Leak. Run.

Lev and Sharp run toward the central hub. Lev punches a KLAXON.

Lev 
(cont'd)
 LEAK! RUN!

Chick takes off running past Lev and Sharp.

Sharp 
(to Chick)
 E-vac. E-vac. Unhook the shuttles. Move!

INT. MIR - FUEL STORAGE

A.J. reacts to the KLAXON, starts to climb up the shaft ladder. 
A.J. struggles  under the heavy weight of his cold suit, finally 
reaching --- 

INT MIR - CORRIDOR ABOVE FUEL STORAGE

Circuits pop VIOLENTLY all around A.J., as the mixture of 
chemical in the air  starts to CHEW the MIR's walls.

INT. MIR - CENTRAL HUB

Lev, Sharp, and Chick RUN into the hub as the leak continues, 
growing rapidly  worse, EATING the walls. Sharp sees the LEAK. 
Runs back toward the docking port. 



Lev 
(to Sharp)
 Seal door.

As Sharp SEALS the hatch, Lev returns to look for A.J.

INT. MIR STATION - REAR MODULE

Harry and Chick react to the KLAXOX BLARES.

Harry Unhook the shuttles.

Harry and Chick RUN out of the rear module and race through the 
maze of twisting  corridors.

INT. MIR CORRIDOR

A.J. runs through another corridor, heading for the docking port 
as the walls  around him POP! Lev files around the corner almost 
smashing into A.J. 

INT. MIR STATION - REAR MODULE 

The smoking circuitry SPARKS, and the REAR MODULE explodes in a 
VIOLENT  CONCUSSION, LAUNCHING A LONG TONGUE OF FLAME into -- 
INT. MIR STATION - UPPER  MODULES

Harry and Chick race for the DOCKING MODULE as -- BEHIND THEM, A 
SECOND MODULE  fills with FIRE and EXPLODES, rocking the MIR. 
Then a third. Fire starts to RIP  THROUGH corridors in the MIR. 

EXT. MIR STATION - SPACE

The MIR shudders and begins to TILT TO ONE SIDE. 

INT. MIR STATION - UPPER MODULES

Everything is SIDEWAYS. Lev is KNOCKED to the ground. A HEAVY 
COMPUTER BOARD  falls, separating A.J. and Lev.

Attempting to reach A.J., Lev turns back and runs from where he 
just came.

INT. MIR STATION - UPPER MODULES - SEALED CORRIDOR

A.J. looks left, then right. He doesn't know how to get to the 
docking port. He  starts running.

INT. MIR STATION - DOCKING PORTS

Sharp re-joins Bennie and Truman. They unhook the FUEL LINES to 
the shuttles.  Sharp and Chick run aboard Shuttle Freedom. Truman 
boards Independence. 

INT. MIR CORRIDOR

A.J. is at the corridor fork. Right or left? The Russian writing 
above both  paths doesn't help. Just as he's about to go left -- 
Lev suddenly appears, grabs  A.J., and PUSHES HIM into the RIGHT 
CORRIDOR. 

Lev Run Yankee!

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM

Sharp 
(to Watts as he sits and buckles up)
 Shut the doors and fire her up!

Watts We still have people out there.

Sharp It's them or ALL OF US. CLOSE THE DOORS NOW!

As the doors are closing, Harry and Chick rush into Shuttle 
Freedom. Harry's  fingers grab the doors just in time. The doors 
retract back. 

Harry Did A.J. make it?

Chick I didn't see him.

INT. SHUTTLE INDEPENDENCE

Truman buckles himself in, fires up the Independence.

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM

Freedom is fired up. The MIR shudders again. TILTS further.

Sharp We have to GO!

INT. MIR CORRIDOR

A.J. and Lev are running hard as DEBRIS falls behind them and the 
walls start to  TEAR APART. They turn a corner, headed toward the 
docking port -- 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM

Harry is at the door, eyes frantically searching for A.J. --

Sharp WE GO NOW!

Sharp stabs a button on his pilot console. The AUTOMATED DOORS 
BEGIN to slide  shut.

INT. SHUTTLE INDEPENDENCE

Truman stabs a button on his pilot console. The AUTOMATED DOORS 
BEGIN to slide  shut.

INT. MIR DOCKING PORT

A.J. and Lev race into the docking port from a rear corridor. 
Harry sees them.  Lev dives into Independence just as the doors 
close. A.J. dives head-long  through the shutting Independence 
doors. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM

Sharp 
(to Watts)
 Full thrusters!

EXT. MIR STATION - SHUTTLES FREEDOM AND INDEPENDENCE

The two shuttles RELEASE AWAY from the MIR Station on FULL 
THRUSTER POWER, just  escaping as --

THE MIR STATION EXPLODES in an eternal flash fire, blowing out 
sections of wall  panels and sending a SOLAR PANEL shooting 
toward Freedom that just misses her!  The collapsed MIR STATION 
drifts off into the oblivion of space. 

INT. SHUTTLE INDEPENDENCE

A.J. sits panting on the floor of the shuttle next to the docking 
port door. Lev  stares down at him.

Lev I am Cosmonaut Lev Andropov, what your name?

A.J. My name is A.J.

Lev You just blew up my home.

SUPER -  TWENTY THREE HOURS TO THE MOON

Golden and Sharp sitting around going over data. New images of 
the closer,  meaner asteroid approaching.

INT. FREEDOM

Interior small sleeping area. Max hanging upside-down in zero 
gravity. Wakes up  yawning. He looks to Bear.

Max Oh, man, did I have a dream.

Bear So did Martin Luthor King.

Max No, this was a bad dream. We were drilling and the ground ate 
the bit.  Then it ate the pipe, then the derrick. Then it ate us. 

Bear That's a dumb-ass dream.

Max I'm not coming home.

They look at each other.

INT. FREEDOM COCKPIT

Harry, Bear, Chick, and Sharp stand looking out the cockpit rear 
window toward  the brilliant blue Earth.

Bear What are you thinking about, Chick?

Chick My kid. You.

Bear My Mom, she'd be proud to see me as an astronaut.

Chick Harry, what are you thinking?

Harry 
(looking at Earth)
 How beautiful it is. Thinkin' about all that oil I  sucked out 
and spit into the air.Funny how a man can live 46 years and 
realize  he ain't been doing the right thing. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - PRESS CONFERENCE ROOM

BEHIND A CURTAIN - Golden confers with Collinswood.

Collinswood The President is counting on you to put out the fire, 
Dan. Say  whatever you have to. Just do it.

Golden walks from behind the curtain. Walks up to the podium, ten 
VIDEO CAMERAS  swivel into position.

For a long moment Golden just stands there, saying nothing.

Golden I work for the President of the United States. 
(long pause; looks over  at Collinswood)
 But I think it's my duty as a scientist to tell the world what  
is happening. Three,  days ago a manned space mission was sent to 
intercept an asteroid  which has entered the Earth's orbit. 
(REPORTERS all chatter)
 This is a difficult  mission. In all  frankness, it is the most 
difficult mission anyone has ever flown.  
(beat)
 A little over fifty years ago we sent our Armed Forces half-way 
around  the world to save the  world from an evil empire that 
threatened mass extinction. The men  and women of this nation 
united, answered the calland preserved our freedom.  
(beat)
 Once again  we face a threat to our way of life. And once again 
we look to our  military to preserve our future. The men and 
women selected to lead this mission  are America's  finest and 
most decorated career officers in the military. Our  hopes and 
prayers are with them. Thank you. 

Golden walks off. The REPORTERS CLAMOR

Reporters 
(UNISON)
 Director Golden! DIRECTOR GOLDEN!

BACKSTAGE - Golden approaches Collinswood.

Collinswood Golden, your drillers better not let us down.

Golden We'll do your best.

EXT. SPACE - APPROACHING THE MOON

The two Shuttles approach THE MOON, Freedom in the lead, 
Independence following.

Beyond the Moon, too distant to see clearly, THE ASTEROID is on 
its trajectory  toward Earth. It is a HUGE, GRAGGY MASS 
surrounded on all sides by a DEBRIS  CLUSTER of rock and ice, the 
ice glinting on and off in reflected sunlight, like  millions of 
fireflies. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT

Watts 
(unbelieving)
 My goodness, look at that thing....

Sharp We have visual of target, Houston. Velocity thirty-three 
hundred miles  an hour.

INT. HOUSTON - MISSION CONTROL

Clark sits with Techs Flip and Skip. Golden and Temple pace 
behind the console.

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - REAR CABIN

Harry, Chick, Bear, and Max finish buckling into their seat 
restraints and  harnesses.

INT. SHUTTLE INDEPENDENCE - REAR CABIN

A.J., Lev, Bennie, Jimbo and Tito buckle on harnesses. Bennie 
looks at A.J.  nervously.

EXT. SPACE - APPROACHING THE MOON

The Shuttles rapidly close on the moon. The dead, luminous sphere 
looms larger  in frame.

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT

THE LUNAR SURFACE completely fills the cockpit windshield. We've 
lost sight of  the oncoming asteroid.

Sharp Visual contact with target lost, Houston.

IN THE REAR CABIN - Harry, Chick, Bear, and Max stare in awe at 
the  ever-approaching Moon.

EXT. SPACE - APPRAOCHING THE MOON

Shuttles Freedom and Independence shoot toward the Moon, pulled 
by the lunar  gravitational field.

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT

THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD - THE LUNAR SURFACE is only 150 miles 
down, looking close  enough to reach down and touch.

EXT. SPACE - APPROACHING THE MOON

The two Shuttles whip into lunar orbit, moving around the Moon, 
continuing to  accelerate, nearing its Dark side.

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL

Clark 
(into headset)
 How we doin', Freedom, over?

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT

Watts Nearing the Dark Side, Houston, a minute thirty and 
counting.

EXT. SPACE - THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MOON

On the Moon's opposite side, THE ASTEROID roars into frame, its 
trailing  fragments motionless in relation to each other, 
travelling as a swarm, a cluster  of debris. As it nears the 
Moon's gravitational field -- 

TRAILING FRAGMENTS peel away, drawn into the Moon by its lunar 
gravity. A  relatively DEBRIS-LESS CORRIDOR begins to form on one 
side of the asteroid. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL

Skip Twenty seconds till we lose radio contact, Director.

Clark You're on your own, Willie. You've got to raise your 
velocity 17  thousand miles an hour or you won't catch the 
target, over. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT

Sharp See you on the other side, Houston.

Skip 
(V.O)
 Entering Dark Side, Freedom, and counting: ten, nine, eight,  
seven...

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL

Skip Radio contact terminated.

The radio crackles with STATIC. ON THE TECHNICIAN'S CONSOLES, all 
of Freedom's  and Independence's COMPUTERIZED SYSTEM MONITORS 
(pressurization, oxygen,  electrical power, fuel capacity, etc.)
 GO DEAD. 

Golden They'll be pullin' nine and half G's for eleven minutes, 
General.

Temple Anyone done that before?

Flip Yeah. That Russian monkey in 1957.

Clark We'll pick 'em up again in sixteen minutes, Danny.

Golden If they're still alive.

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - AROUND DARK SIDE OF MOON

The radio is STATIC.

Watts Rockets ready for burn, Willie.

Sharp 
(over shoulder to Harry and others)
 Time to suck it up, people. Just  pretend you're on the big 
roller coaster at Disneyland...
(mumbles under breath)
  ...times a  hundred.... 

Sharp reaches for the BOOSTER ROCKET SWITCH. He gives Watts one 
last look, then  throws the switch. 

EXT. DARK SIDE OF THE MOON - FREEDOM AND INDEPENDENCE 

Freedom and Independence fire their BOOSTERS. The two SHUTTLES 
explode forward,  hurtling around the Moon's DARK SIDE with a 
degree of increasing velocity never  before experienced by man. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - REAR CABIN

Harry, Chick, Bear, and Max get hit with the first G-Forces. 
Their torsos press  back against their seats. They flex their 
arms, breathing deeply, expanding  their chest cavities as they 
were taught in training. 

Harry I hate to fly, I hate to fly, I hate to fly....

INT. SHUTTLE INDEPENDENCE - REAR CABIN 

A.J., Lev, Bennie, Jimbo, and Tito get slammed back by the first 
wave of  G-Forces. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT 

Watts reads her VELOCITY INDICATOR under G-Forces so bad she 
speaks through  clenched teeth

Watts Fourteen thousand....sixteen thousand...twenty thousand 
miles an hour,  Willie...! 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL

Silence. Tension. Technicians stare at their consoles.

Clark They're hittin' the big G's right about...now.

Golden Come on, Willie, you can do this....

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - REAR CABIN

Excruciating, gut-wrenching, turn-your-intestines-inside-out G-
Forces. HARRY and  CHICK'S FACIAL MUSCLES distort hideously; 
their rubbery cheeks and lips flatten  out. They continue anti-G 
exercises, tensing every muscle, trying to keep blood  flow 
evenly distributed. 

INT. SHUTTLE INDEPENDENCE

A.J. and Bennie's distorted faces, likewise, go through the anti 
G-Force  exercises, tensing every muscle.

EXT. LUNAR ORBIT - MASTER SHOT

IN ONE AWE-INSPIRING SHOT, we see -- 

Shuttles Freedom and Independence rocketing around the Moon in 
darkness, further  and further, until finally WE SEE, 
increasingly, a staggering, mind blowing  visual -- 

THE ASTEROID'S TRAILING DEBRIS appears, a HUGE CLOUD of tiny ICE 
CHUNKS AND  PEBBLES, and much larger BOULDERS, and ICEBERGS the 
size of houses, the ice  glinting with reflected sunlight, 
throwing off a dazzling SPECTRAL SHOWER OF  LIGHT in all 
directions, and finally -- 

THE ASTEROID'S HUGE CORE - it has just cleared the Moon and now 
flies straight  for it's destination - the cool, blue PLANET 
EARTH dead ahead across an expanse  of space. 

Shuttles Freedom and Independence slingshot out of the Lunar 
orbit and fall in  behind the asteroid, settling into the DEBRIS-
LESS CORRIDOR. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL 

Continued STATIC on the radio. Everyone sits nervously waiting. 
Suddenly the  shuttles' computerised SYSTEM MONITORS begin to 
click back on. 

Clark Freedom, come in, over. Independence, come in, over.

Nothing. Golden grabs the mike.

Golden Willie? Come in, over. Willie, can you hear me...? 

Total silence. A pin could drop. The N.A.S.A. Technicians stare 
nervously at the  Central Board. 

Then, suddenly through static

Sharp 
(V.0)
 Houston, you gotta see this to believe it.... 

Elation. Held breaths are exhaled. Golden and N.A.S.A. 
TECHNICIANS smile. No one  is more relieved than Grace. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT 

Sharp and Watts stare through the windshield at -- 

THE ASTEROID, below them and dead ahead. We get our first 
(and only temporary)
  clear glimpse of the designated landing field, a relatively 
smooth, unobstructed  plane on the asteroid's surface. 

Harry is green, looks like he's gonna blow chunks. 

Sharp We're awake, we're not pukin'....
(looks over shoulder at Harry)
  ....well, Harry is. And we got a clear path to the target. 
Houston, over. 

INT. SHUTTLE INDEPENDENCE 

Truman smiles. 

Truman Copy that, Freedom. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL 

Clark gives Golden a thumbs up. 

Clark We'll take you in, guys. 

EXT. SHUTTLES FREEDOM AND INDEPENDENCE 

Freedom, in the lead, and Independence, following to the rear and 
side, descend  through the debris-less corridor to the waiting 
asteroid. 

Suddenly a CLOUD OF ICE AND PEBBLES wafts in front of the 
Shuttles. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM COCKPIT 

In one terrifying second, visibility is cut to twenty feet. Then 
BANG! BANG!  BANG! BANG! 

PEBBLES and SMALL ICE CHUNKS strike the windshield, chipping and 
denting it. The  impacts are violent; the interior is buffeted 
around. It's the space equivalent  of bad hailstorm. 

Sharp Damn it....! 

Clark 
(V.O)
 What is it, Willie? 

Sharp Problem, Houston. We've got debris all over us! 

REAR OF COCKPIT - Harry and the others, alarmed, are buffeted 
around violently. 

INT. SHUTTLE INDEPENDENCE - COCKPIT 

No visibility here either. Ice chunks and pebbles BANG against 
the windshield. 

Truman I've got no visibility. I've lost orientation to the 
target! 

Suddenly, as sudden as it came, the debris clears. 

But a HUGE ICE BOULDER the size of a three-story building twirls 
into  Independence's path. It hits a BOULDER which collides with 
another. 

Truman Big guy! Dead ahead! 

Truman stabs his directional thruster button. Shuttle 
Independence veers to the  right.... 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM 

Sharp hits his directional thruster, and Freedom veers to the 
left.... 

EXT. THROUGH THE ASTEROID'S TAIL 

Freedom goes left, Independence right, splitting the ice boulder. 

Freedom clears the ice boulder by a foot. Independence, not so 
lucky, clips the  ice boulder, ripping her left thruster clean 
off. With one thruster,  Independence careens out of control, 
twirling and spinning. 

INT. SHUTTLE INDEPENDENCE 

Truman 
(panicked)
 I lost left thruster! No control! I have no control! 

In the Independence's cargo bay, one of the Armadillos RIPS free 
from its  moorings and plunges through the CARGO BAY DOORS. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM 

Sharp steers Freedom past the ice boulder.

Watts Where's the other ship....?!

Suddenly the Independence, with a RIPPED OPEN CARGO BAY DOOR, 
careens directly  across Freedom's path, filling Freedom's 
cockpit window, nearly colliding with  her. 

Sharp hits his thrusters, veering away from the damaged 
Independence. 

Sharp and Watts watch Independence twirling toward the asteroid. 
Suddenly  BANG!!! 

The INDEPENDENCE'S ERRANT ARMADILLO strikes the Freedom's nose, 
spider-webbing  the WINDSHIELD. Sharp and Watts recoil in terror. 
Watts SCREAMS. 

INT. SHUTTLE INDEPENDENCE 

The fuselage is spinning. A.J., Bennie and the others are in 
terror. In the  cockpit, Truman SCREAMS over the radio

Truman Houston, MAYDAY, MAYDAY, we're going down! 

The Shuttle's roof collides with a rock. We hear SCRAPING METAL. 
The CEILING  dents in, dislodging INTERIOR CEILING PANELS filled 
with wires and electrical  components; they rain down on A.J. and 
the others. 

Choas. The SPARKING CABIN fills with smoke. 

Truman Crew, go to life support! 

Everyone grabs for their HELMET, frantically trying to get them 
on. A.J. gets  his on, but he can't lock his neck seal. He 
fidgets with the little SEAKL LOCKS. 

A.J. rips off the helmet. It slips from his fingers and floats 
off through the  zero-g cabin! 

A.J. Goddamn it! 

A.J. throws off his seat harnesses and goes after his helmet. In 
zero-gravity,  the sides of the twirling cockpit revolve around 
A.J. as he moves. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL 

We hear a CACOPHONY OF VOICES and BANGING ROCKS against 
Independence's fuselage. 



Truman MAYDAY, HOUSTON, MAYDAY....!! 

Golden and the N.A.S.A. personnel can only sit and listen, 
horrified, impotent  to do anything..... 

INT. SHUTTLE INDEPENDENCE - REAR CABIN 

AT THE BACK OF THE CABIN - A.J. reaches his helmet and 
frantically gets it back  on. The fuselage is still twirling 
around him. 

Bennie, strapped in and freaking out, throws off his seat harness 
and bolts for  the SAFETY EMERGENCY HATCH equipped with EXPLOSIVE 
RELEASE CHARGES. 

Truman sees Bennie at the Emergency Hatch. BIG ROCKS smash off 
the windshield in  front of Truman; the windshield's safety glass 
is weakened, splintered, to the  point of bursting. 

Truman Get away from that door!!!! 

Bennie is wild-eyed, crazed. 

Bennie Go to hell, man, I ain't dyin' on this thing!!!! 

A SERIES OF QUICK CUTS

A ROCK SMASHES through the windshield, gouging into Truman. 
Depressurisation.  Truman and Co-pilot Weston are sucked out 
through the windshield. 

Bennie BLOWS the Emergency Hatch's explosive charges. The hatch 
door pulls  Bennie out into space...to his death. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL 

FLASH CUTS Independence's System Monitors flash off 
PRESSURIZATION goes to  zero; CABIN OXYGEN goes to zero; 
INDIVIDUAL LIFE SUPPORT MONITORS go to zero. 

Independence's radio transmissions are STATIC and PANICKED 
VOICES. Golden runs  down the aisle to Independence's monitors. 

Skip No cabin pressure! Systems-wide failure! 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - REAR CABIN 

Harry and the Roughnecks are SMASHED around in their seats. 

IN THE COCKPIT - THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD 

A BOULDER the size of a house looms downslope. Shuttle Freedom is 
skidding  straight for it. 

Sharp and Watts watch helplessly as the Shuttle skids toward the 
boulder. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE 

Freedom hits a SMALLER ROCK, which changes its skid angle. It 
clears the boulder  by a foot and skids to a stop at the base of 
the slope. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - REAR CABIN 

Harry and the others JOLT to a stop. No one moves. No one 
breathes. It's scary  as hell. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL Golden and the other Technicians 
wait  breathlessly for some response. Golden GRABS the mike.

Golden Freedom. come in. 
(no response)
 Independence, come in . no response)
  Come in, Freedom.

Nothing. Skip buries his face in his hands. Flip chews his 
pencil. Golden,  having lost one crew already, twists his wedding 
ring. 

Sharp 
(V.O)
 Houston, it's Freedom. We just landed on this son-of-a-bitch,  
over.

Golden and the Technicians breath a sigh of relief.

Watts 
(V.O)
 What's the status of Independence?

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - REAR CABIN

CAMERA PUSHES IN ON HARRY, as he waits for Houston's response to 
this last  question.

Sharp 
(V.O)
 We lost her.

CAMERA TIGHT ON HARRY. He's lost men before, many men on oil 
rigs. But not  A.J.....

Chick 
(O.S.)
 Harry, Harry, Jesus Christ, this can't happen....

Harry snaps out of it, turns to Chick.

Harry It did happen. They're gone. Deal with it. We got a lot of 
work to do.

Harry unharnesses himself and rises.

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL

Golden looks at Grace. She looks back. A tear slides off her 
cheek to the  console. Harry's daughter doesn't say a word, or 
break down. She just quietly  rises and walks to the back of the 
room. Grace rubs her bare ring finger. A  BEAT. 

CAMERA SPIES the ZERO BARRIER CLOCK. Seven hours, 52 minutes, 000 
feet drilled.

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM

Chick, Bear, and Max prepare to disembark, donning helmet and 
glove assemblies,  clicking neck and wrist seals into locking 
position. 

Harry comes into the cockpit. Watts is flipping switches and 
reading gauges.  Sharp's on the radio. A haze fills the cockpit. 

Watts Engine ignition system isn't responding.

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL

INTERCUT - FREEDOM/ MISSION CONTROL

Golden What's the problem?

Flip Engine ignition. Starting diagnostics.

Sharp Houston, I don't know where we are. Tell me how far we 
overshot Harry's  sweep spot. Advise on currant location, over. 

Skip motions to Golden and Clark. They hurry over to his console. 
On Skip's  computer screen is a MAP OF THE ASTEROID containing 
its geological fault lines. 

Skip They overshot their landing 26 miles. There's a different 
fault line, but  it's deeper.

Golden How much deeper? 

Skip Two hundred feet. 

Golden exchanges a look with Temple. 

Golden Harry, your fault line's fifty yards off the starboard 
side. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM 

Harry stalks to the rear. 

Harry Rockhound. 

Rockhound Yes, sir. 

Harry I'm gonna get you some surface samples and you're gonna 
tell me what I'm  up against. 

Rockhound Rocks are my life. 

Watts Willie, we might be stuck. 

Sharp exchanges grim looks with Pitts and Fisk over this bad 
information. 

Harry The good news just keeps comin'. Load up, guys. 

Sharp watches Harry and the guys exit to the rear. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - SHUTTLE FREEDOM 

Freedom's cargo door opens; its RAMP unfolds to the asteroid's 
surface. HARRY  looks out. 

Freedom is in a small, cold, dark valley. The asteroid's face is 
tilted away  from the Earth and Sun. THE MOON is huge on our rear 
horizon. The place is  eerily calm and tranquil. Harry walks down 
the ramp onto the asteroid surface. 

INT. FREEDOM CARGO BAY - INSIDE ARMADILLO 

Chick, at the Armadillo's controls, engages gears. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

The Armadillo rumbles out of the cargo bay, carrying Bear, Max, 
Rockhound and  Pitts over the wheel wells. 

The Armadillo drives 50 yards from Freedom and parks. The guys 
hop down, turning  on their PRO-GRAVITY THRUSTERS. Bear begins 
off-loading 20-foot long DRILLING  PIPES. 

Harry takes readings from a SEISMIC INSTRUMENT. Pulls out a SOIL 
SAMPLER, a  small shovel on a telescoping shaft. He digs it in 
with his boot. Clang. It  doesn't dig in at all. He walks around, 
stabbing it into the ground. CLANG.  CLANG. 

Chick exchanges nervous looks with Bear and Max. 

Harry Bedrock. Whole goddamn place is Bedrock. 

Harry examines the ground. Not satisfied. He finds a spot he 
likes; digs an "X"  in the soil with his boot. 

Harry 
(cont'd)
 Here. Fire up the Bad Boy bit. 

Chick, Max and Bear go into action. Max screws the Bad Boy bit 
onto the first  drilling pipe. Bear hoists the pipe up to the 
DRILLING MECHANISM, muscles it  onto the DRILL DRIVE, then clamps 
it on. 

Harry plugs a TEE and GOLF BALL into the craggy surface. He 
waggles his club, a  5-IRON HEAD, screwed onto the soil sampler's 
shaft. 

Pitts What's he doing? 

Chick Wildcatters are superstitious, Colonel. Harry does this 
every time we  break ground. 

He swings....WHACK! The ball rockets off the tee and keeps 
going...and going... 

Harry HOLE NUMBER 77. Let 'er rip! 

Chick throws a lever, lowering the BAD BOY BIT into the rocky, 
icy surface. Down  the drill pipe goes, unimpeded, 10 feet just 
like that. It suddenly stops. It's  turning, but not drilling. 
Bear and Max approach the drill hole. 

Bear What in hell's down there?

Harry Chick, bring 'er up!

Chick throws it in reverse. The DRILLING ARM reverses out of the 
hole. The Bad  Boy bot comes up CHEWED TO SHREDS. Harry and the 
guys examine the drill bit.  Everyone exchanges a worried look. 

Max The dream. It's my dream. 

Harry Shut up, Max. 
(looks at Bear)
 What's with the look? Get that off your  face. You've seen bits 
get eaten before. 

Bear Not after ten feet. 

Chick The first ten better be the worst ten. 

Harry Go to the Terminator. 

Chick grabs Harry's mysterious METAL CASE. Harry pops open the 
metal case,  revealing THE TERMINATOR, a super high-tech bit. 

Harry I designed you. I built you. You are the enemy of all 
subterranean shit.  You are the king. It's showtime. 

Harry passes it to Bear, who screws it onto the drilling pipe, 
Rockhound scoops  up a COLLECTION OF DOWNHOLE ROCK CHIPS. 

Harry 
(cont'd)
 Hit it, Chick. 

The DRILL PIPE turns. Sediment comes WHOOSHING out of the hole 
and -- THE DRILL  PIPE descends like a bitch. 

INT. FREEDOM 

Sharp, Watts, Pitts and Fisk have a PANEL removed, exposing the 
guts of  Freedom's wiring and components. Watts and Sharp are 
inside the panel, scrunched  against the fuselage wall, unbolting 
a large COMPONENT. Watts hands Pitts and  Fisk a SMALLER 
COMPONENT. 

Watts Unbolt the housing. There and there. 

INT. ARMADILLO 

The rock CHIPS spew into the COLLECTOR in front of ROCKHOUND. 
Harry looks on. 

Harry What do you make of that? 

Rockhound picks up several chips. Draws them close to his eyes. 

Rockhound Oh my. Oh my, my, my. This isn't rock. It's uhh, it's 
uhh,  it's......iron. 

Harry Iron deposit? 

Rockhound 
(shakes head)
 No. It's been melted. Forged rather. I've only seen  this once - 
at a volcano in Hawaii. 
(looks up at Harry)
 You're drilling into a  big slab of cast-iron, Mr. Stamper. 

INT. FREEDOM 

Harry picks up the radio. 

Harry Give me Dan Golden. 

INTERCUT - MISSION CONTROL / FREEDOM 

Golden's handed the phone. 

Golden Yeah, Harry. What's your situation? 

INTERCUT - GOLDEN AND TEMPLE IN MISSION CONTROL / HARRY ON 
FREEDOM 

Harry Situation? You put me down on the worst possible place on 
this asteroid.  I'm drillin' into something I shouldn't. The hole 
just ate one of my  diamond-tipped bits in thirty minutes. That 
has never happened to me in twenty years. 

Golden You're forty minutes in. You should be down 150 feet. How 
far are you? 

Harry Not far. 
(beat)
 Twenty-three feet. 

CLOSE ON Golden as he looks at Temple. 

Temple This is an exercise in futility. 

Golden 
(to Harry)
 "Don't tell me what you can't do, tell me what you can."  
Remember that, Stamper? Go faster. 

Harry We will. 

Golden How? 

INT. FREEDOM CARGO BAY 

Sharp and Pitts enter. Fisk hands Sharp the phone. 

Sharp Sharp, over. 

PUSH IN on Sharp in EXTREME CLOSE-UP. His jaw tightens. His eyes 
dart. 

Sharp 
(cont'd)
 Sir, the bird can't fly. 

Temple 
(V.O.)
 Well, you need to get it fixed unless you want to die along with  
that asteroid. 

A LONG PAUSE, as Sharp listens. 

Sharp :
(cont'd)
 Yes, sir. 

Temple 
(V.O.)
 And, I don't want those drillers knowing about this. They have  
enough to worry about just drilling the damn ole. 

Collinswood 
(V.O.)
 Colonel Sharp, this is Chief of Staff Collinswood. Have  Pitts 
and Fisk prepare to detonate that nuke on the surface. Too many 
lives are  at stake here. Have them standing by. 

Sharp On your order sir. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - A TINY VALLEY - ESTABLISHING 

The gnarled WRECK OF SHUTTLE INDEPENDENCE lies below. Twisted 
metal and cabin  materials strewn everywhere. 

INT. INDEPENDENCE CRASH SITE 

CAMERA moves through the wreckage of Independence. Nightmarish. 
EMERGENCY LIGHTS  still on battery flicker. The shattered 
windshield; the blown emergency hatch; A  CORPSE lies face down, 
helmet half on, half off; Independence's huge tubular  NUCLEAR 
DEVICE. 

Something moves on the ceiling. REVEAL A.J. hanging upside down, 
caught in the  twisted fuselage skin. A.J. cuts himself down. He 
twirls to the ground. Sees  LEGS MOVING UNDER RUBBLE. 

A.J. throws off the rubble, revealing Lev, dazed but alive. A.J. 
helps him to  his feet. 

Lev What happened to the others.... 

A.J. and Lev move toward the cockpit. 

A.J. 
(grabs the radio)
 Freedom, come in, over. Freedom, come in, over....  Freedom...? 
(shaking head)
 It's you and me. 

A.J. smashes the radio in frustration. 

EXT. FREEDOM - DRILLING SITE 

Chick and Bear screw on a new length of drill pipe. Chick engages 
the gears. The  drill pipe descends. THE TERMINATOR is working. 
Harry approaches from the  shuttle. 

Harry How far? 

Chick Almost 60 feet and startin' to kick ass! 

Suddenly GRRRR. CLANG. BANG. The drill pipe stops. Harry walks 
over to the hole. 



Chick 
(cont'd)
 That did not sound good. 

Harry Increase r.p.m. 

Chick throws the lever. The drill pipe turns faster, but still 
doesn,t descend.  Harry and the guys crowd around the drilling 
hole. 

Max Freaky, man.

Bear I got one of those big-time crappy feelings about this.

Harry We gotta get more power down to this bit. 
(thinks; looks up at Chick)
  Full throttle.

Chick You sure?

Harry Yeah, I'm sure.

Chick I don't think she can take it.

Harry She's gonna have to.

Chick The last time we ran her at full throttle we ripped her up!

Harry I don't have time to argue, Chick, now goddamn it, throttle 
up, or I'll  come up there and do it for you.

Chick reluctantly throws the lever to FULL THROTTLE. The TURBINE 
ENGINE ROARS.  The DRILL PIPE turns faster in the hole. The 
TURBINE ENGINE is shaking the  Armadillo. The drill pipe is 
descending again. Suddenly BANG!! The CLUTCH  rupture, spewing 
the CLUTCH PLATES and GEARS into space.

Harry Stop!

Chick throws it into reverse. Up comes THE TERMINATOR, CHEWED TO 
SHREDS. Bear  and Max look at it, then each other. Very worried 
now. 

Bear The Terminator's terminated.

Chick The clutch is dead.

Harry We're goin' to the second rig.

Harry stalks off toward the Shuttle.

Harry 
(cont'd)
 We need the second Armadillo.

Sharp We'll bring it out to you.

Harry moves to get his pipe tongs. Fisk and Pitts are next to the 
uncovered  nuclear bomb. Harry looks at the bomb.

EXT. FREEDOM - DRILL SITE

Chick, Bear and Max listen to Harry over the inter-crew link. 

INTERCUT WITH ABOVE.

INT. FREEDOM

Harry Why don't we cut to the chase, fellahs? What the fuck is 
going on with  that other nuke?

Harry stares at the nuclear weapon.

Sharp Stamper, if you can't drill the hole, we're detonating this 
thing on the  surface....

Chick and the guys eye each other. Harry walks off, pissed 
off....

INT. MISSION CONTROL

Golden and Clark are hunched over monitors. Two MILITARY AIDES 
carrying a  NUCLEAR COMMAND LINK 
(FOOTBALL)
 SUITCASE.

Golden, alarmed, tries to figure out what they have.

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM

Chick, Bear and Max enter through the airlock. Everyone turns and 
stares at  Sharp. 

Sharp There's no way in hell you're gonna get that hole dug, and 
you know it. 

Harry Well, it wasn't my scientists that told me about the 
fucking fire  cracker inside the hand story. Are we detonating on 
the surface or are we gonna  drill? 

Bear I didn't come up here to die. 

Chick I say we drill. They say we have until Zero Barrier. 

Sharp 
(freaked out)
 That hole better be dug in two hours, or we're detonating.  
Whether you're on this godforsaken rock or not! 

Harry We're drilling.

Harry and his crew file out.

INT. MISSION CONTROL - NIGHT

Golden 
(to Temple)
 What is going on up there?

Temple Your drillers aren't doing the job, Dan.

Golden After 15 minutes? What do you expect?

Temple Golden, we are preparing for surface detonation.

Golden A surface detonation isn't going to do it, General. My 
scientists have  already told you that. It must be detonated 
inside the asteroid. The alternative  is that the Earth  will be 
bombarded by smaller matter which will be just as  catastrophic. 

Temple stares off pensively into the sky.

Temple We have a lot better chance of surviving the "smaller 
matter." The  drillers have two hours 
(to the Aides)
 I want you ready on my command. 

The Adjutants prepare the nuclear command link.

Military Adjutant Sir, we have interface with the weapon. Remote 
detonator  standing by.

INT. INDEPENDENCE - CRASH SITE

Lev is sitting on the ground, head in his hands, completely 
demoralised.

Lev I feel like Skywalker Luke when he learn Darth Vader his 
father. What I  should do?

A.J. Get up, we got work to do.

Lev A.J., let me cash in my chips.

A.J. Lev, we're getting off this rock, if I have to drag your ass 
the whole  way. 
(off Lev's look)
 Now get up! 

A.J. walks into the Independence cargo bay, detached from the 
nose section. Then  climbs into Independence's Armadillo. 

A.J. C'MON LEV, PUT YOUR WEIGHT INTO IT!

EXT. INDEPENDENCE - WRECKAGE OF CARGO BAY

Lev is prying open the cargo bay ramp door 
(the hydraulics are shot)
.

LEV YOU COME PUSH, YANKEE....

INT. - MISSION CONTROL

Golden turns to Temple.

Golden The asteroid's surface is heating up.

Temple What does that mean?

Golden It means they may not be able to work on the surface for 
much longer.  The temperatures will be unbearable. 

EXT. INDEPENDENCE - WRECKAGE OF CARGO BAY 

The Armadillo, engine rumbling, is poised to roll Independence's 
long tubular  NUCLEAR WEAPON which has been ejected with other 
debris from the broken  fuselage. 

Lev Wait A.J.! We drive over nuclear weapon and we finished 
before we started. 

A.J. So move it. 

Lev jams a pipe between the ARMING DEVIC and the nuke. As he 
rolls the nuke  over, the arming device detaches, rips off, and 
clatters to the ground. 

INT. MISSION CONTROL 

Temple Golden, tell your drillers the clock is ticking. I have 6 
billion  people down here relying on them! 

In the b.d. hangs a crayon drawing of sunny day by Temple's 
daughter. 

Temple 
(cont'd)
 A lot of people are die.... 

INT. INDEPENDENCE - CRASH SITE 

The ARMADILLO blasts through the cargo bay door. A.J. and Lev 
roll off away from  the Independence. 

A.J. cranes his neck looking out through the Armadillo. A RIDGE 
with THRE TALL  SPIRES is in the distance, ringed with LIGHT from 
Freedom's FLOOD LIGHTS. 

A half-smile from A.J hope. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM 

Sharp comes back from the cockpit, carrying the detonator. 
Harry's on the phone  to Golden. 

Harry ...You told me that the only way to deal with this hunk 'o 
crud is to  get a nuke 1000 feet down. You sticking with that? 

Golden 
(V.O.)
 Firmly. 

Harry Great. Glad we have that understanding. 

Golden 
(V.O.)
 IF you're gonna pull this off, we have to have a little talk  
about time...and temperature. Zero Barrier's in two hours. 

Harry Wait...wait..what about temperature? When did temperatures 
come into the  picture? 

Golden 
(V.O.)
 Harry, your suits are good upto 150 degrees Celsius.... 

Harry And...? How hot is it going to get? 

Golden 
(V.O.)
 We didn't anticipate you being on the asteroid so long. The  
clock is ticking... 

Harry How hot is it going to get?! 

Golden 
(V.O.)
 Three hundred and fifty degrees. 

Harry's face drops. 

Harry Thanks for telling us now, Golden....I don't think my bits 
can handle  those kind of temperatures.... 

INT. FREEDOM - CARGO BAY 

Harry clicks off the radio. 

Watts We've still gotta fix this shuttle, Stamper. 

Harry Give me some more good news. You've got two new assistants 
who can fix  your shuttle. Bear, Max, hop to it. There's not a 
machine they can't fix. We can  handle the hole from here. 

EXT. SHUTTLE FRREDOM

The airlock opens. Sharp and Pitts are led out by Harry.

Harry Colonel Sharp, if we're going to blow this hole, you gotta 
help ME. I  need some more manpower....

EXT. FREEDOM DRILL SITE - MINUTES LATER

The SECOND ARMADILLO rumbles out of Freedom's cargo bay. Chick 
and the  Roughnecks work like a NASCAR pit crew. Sharp and Pitts 
lay on their backs  holding down a 1000 pound axle, fighting 
zero-g. 

Suddenly, the ground begins to tremble.

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - FRONT OF "THREE SPIRES RIDGE"

A.J.'s ARMADILLO rumbles over a little hill revealing the RIDGE 
WTH THREE SPIRES  directly in front of them. THE SUN is moving 
over the asteroid's FAR HORIZON,  causing a "sunrise." It is 
breathtaking, spiritual...and frighteningly bright. 

INT. A.J.'S ARMADILLO

A.J. Over the hill.

Suddenly, the ground under the vehicle shakes sharply. A.J. stops 
the Armadillo.

The ground around the vehicle heaves up and down. The GROUND 
SPLITS. One  TECTONIC PLATE rises 15 feet in the air. The ground 
breaks like a wave, up and  down. 

INT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE

Here, too, the ground shakes. Bear, terrified, drops a DRILL 
PIPE. Max is shaken  to the ground.

Chick is nearly thrown off the Armadillo.

Chick Clear the rig!!!

Chick jumps down, bouncing. Everybody gets the hell away from the 
drilling hole.

INT. A.J.'S ARMADILLO

The asteroid shakes violently, throwing A.J. and Lev around the 
cab. ROCKS BANK  down on the Armadillo's top and hood. The 
ASTEROID SURFACE continues splitting  apart across the slope's 
fall line. 

A.J. EARTHQUAKE!

The asteroid RUMBLES a few more seconds, then the quake slowly 
stops. All is  stll. 

A.J. 
(cont'd)
 Let's take a look. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE 

Lev gets out; he nervously paces back and forth across the lip of 
the fissure. 

Lev This bad. 
(repeating, mantra)
 Darth Vader. Darth Vader. 

A.J. Listen, Mr. Negative. Everyone thinks we're dead. We're not. 
So, suck it  up. Because if we don't drill that hole, six billion 
people are going to die.  And I'm not lettin' Harry Stamper get 
all the freaking credit for saving the world. 
(firm)
  We're gona do this, then we're going home. 

Lev I l-o-v-e this American confidence! Like John Wayne. 
(sotto)
 This why I  suspect you won Cold War. 

A.J. Hep me get these rocks over there. 

A.J. and Lev start dragging rocks to use as a "kicker ramp" for 
the jump. Lev is  oblivious. They pull embedded rock out, 
revealing DIAMONDS. A.J. holds up a  large chunk. 

A.J. 
(cont'd)
 This outta cut into a sweet wedding ring. 

Lev 
(holding chunk)
 With this I can rebuild my MIR. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

Chick, Bear, and Max cautiously approach the drill hole. 
Everything seems okay.  Chick climbs back up to the drill-drive 
platform. 

Chick Back to work! 

Bear grabs the drill pipe and hoists it... back to work. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - "THREE SPIRES RIDGE" 

A.J. is walking along the GAPING, JAGGED FISSURE, 50 feet wide, 
50 feet deep,  stretching across the entire slope. 

Lev This bad, this very bad, very, very bad... 

A.J. Stick a cork in it, Lev. I'm tryin' to think. 

A.J. stares at the fissure, his eyes roaming from the 
fissure...to the  Armadillo...back to the fissure. 

A.J. 
(cont'd)
 Hop on the back. Get our weight distributed better. 

Lev 
(uncertain)
 And why to do this? 

A.J. Because I'm askin'. And turn your suit's thrusters off. 
Trust me, okay? 

A.J. gets in the Armadillo. Lev goes around back, climbs on the 
REAR BUMPER. He  clicks off his pressure suit's pro-gravity 
thrusters. 

Lev Okey-doke. 

The Armadillo begins backing down the slope. 

INT. A.J.'S ARMADILLO 

A.J. throws it in neutral. The Armadillo stops. 

A.J. Hey, Lev, we're gonna see what this Porche engine can do.... 

He throws it in drive. The Armadillo lurches ahead. 

EXT. A.J..'S ARMADILLO - BACK BUMPER 

The Armadillo's REAR TIRES CHURN FORWARD, slinging rocks and 
gravel which, in  zero-g, shoot off in a stream into space, never 
falling. Lev holds on for dear  life. 

A.J.'S Armadillo churns up the slope like a Bronco 4X4, slinging 
gravel, heading  for THE JAGGED FISSURE. It FLIES over the 
fissure's edge as -- 

INT. A.J.'S ARMADILLO 

-- A.J. punches the Armadillo's PRO-GRAVITY THRUSTER "OFF" 
SWITCH. 

EXT. A.J.'S ARMADILLO - ROOF 

-- the Armadillo's roof-mounted PRO-GRAVITY THRUSTERS shut down. 

EXT. ASTEROID - "THREE SPIRES RIDGE" - JAGGED FISSURE 

The Armadillo, no longer thrusting downwardly, flies across the 
jagged fissure  in zero-g. The heavy steel vehicle doesn't fall. 
It ascends, and amazingly,  shoots across the entire 50 foot 
expanse of jagged fissure. 

EXT. A.J.'S ARMADILLO - BACK BUMPER 

Lev looks down. The FISSURE passes beneath him, then SOLID GROUND 
again. They've  cleared the fissure....but they're not coming 
down. 

Lev A.J., up is bad! Down! 

INT. A.J.'S ARMADILLO 

A.J. punches the PRO-GRAVITY THRUSTER "START" SWITCH. Nothing.... 

EXT. A.J.'S ARMADILLO - BACK BUMPER 

The thruster nozzles SPUTTER, but no thrust. The Armadillo is 50 
feet off the  ground and still ascending...into outer space. Lev, 
his next stop being Planet  Mars, panics. He climbs the roof and 
peers inside the front windshield, POUNDING  ON THE WINDSHIELD. 

Lev Down! Not up! Up is bad! Down! 

INT. A.J.'S ARMADILLO 

The Armadillo continues lifting into space, from which there is 
no return. A.J.  toggles the "start" switch. The swtich's 
INDICATOR LIGHT FLICKERS. 

A.J. HOLD ON, LEV, I GOT HER WORKIN'!! 

EXT. A.J.'S ARMADILLO 

Not quite. Only the right-front and right-rear THRUSTER NOZZLES 
fire, pushing  the right side downward, rolling the Armadillo 
over on its side. Lev, on the  bumper, clings to the rear-mounted 
TOW WINCH AND CABLE ASSEMBLY. 

Suspended in zero-g, on its side and in mid-air, the Armadillo is 
pushed by  thrusters, tires-first, against the SHEER, 90 DEGREE 
CLIFF FACE next to the  slope. All four Armadillo tires slam 
against the cliff. The Armadillo bounces  off. 

Lev, grabbing the Armadillo's TOWING CABLE, flies off the rear. 
The cable spools  out and LEV, hanging on for all he's worth, 
SLAMS against the cliff face and  descends.... 

INT. A.J.'S ARMADILLO 

A.J., lying sideways, keeps toggling the thruster START SWITCH. 
The indicator  light finally FLASHES "IN" and A.J. rams it into 
drive -- 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - CLIFF FACE / ARMADILLO 

-- the Armadillo, all four thrusters now working, drives sideways 
across the  cliff face dragging Lev, who bounces against the 
cliff face and gradually falls,  until he's bouncing on the 
asteroid surface. 

The Armadillo finally falls down the cliff face and skids to a 
stop. 

INT. A.J.'S ARMADILLO 

A.J., shaken, takes a deep breath and gets out. 

EXT. A.J.'S ARMADILLO - REAR 

A.J. walks to the rear. Lev splayed out 50 feet from the back of 
the Armadillo,  covered in asteroid surface dirt and grime, looks 
up at him. 

Lev Very bad idea, A.J. 

EXT. FREEDOM - DRILLING SITE 

Harry orders his crew to start the drill up. The men drill a 
shitload of feet in  record time. They finally burst through the 
rock and hit easy sediment. 

The asteroid is spinning toward sunlight. Here, too, there is a 
sunrise. Bear's  face sweats inside the helmet. Chick's vision 
begins to blur. Tito takes a seat  on a nearby rock, exhausted. 

Chick Mutha...it's getting warm. 

Bear 
(worried)
 We got that sunrise, Harry. These bits are gonna fry up...... 

Suddenly the TRANSMISSION LINKAGE in the Armadillo BLOWS. 

Harry Goddamn it! 
(thinks)
 We'' take the tranny from the other rig! And if you  wanna 
complain about the heat, go to some other fucking 
asteroid....Toughen up. 

Sharp 
(to Roughnecks)
 Let's move it.....let's go, guys. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

Chick and Bear yank the detached good TRANSMISSION HOUSING from 
inside Armadillo  2 and carry it across to Armadillo 1. 

INT. ARMADILLO 1 - CABIN 

Max finishes unbolting the BROKEN TRANSMISSION HOUSING. He passes 
it to Chick  who dumps it on the surface. Sharp and Truman work 
with Bear and Chick who feed  in the good transmission housing. 

Max presses the airlock. The doors close and the cabin 
pressurises. Max clicks  off his helmet. He begins installing the 
transmission housing and the linkage. 

EXT. ARMADILLO 1 

Chick and Bear, atop the drilling platform, begin installing the 
clutch plates  and transmission linkage. 

Harry Move guys, move it..... 

Bolting, bolting, bolting, connecting, connecting..... 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL - DAY 

Skip is analysing the asteroid's THERMAL READINGS. A MULTI-
COLORED THERMAL IMAGE  MAP shows most of the asteroid is GREEN 
(no heat)
, but around the chosen landing  site are numerous RED SPOTS 
(heat)
. 

Skip Look at these thermals. This is BEFORE sunlight hits the 
drill site.  She's really heating up.... 

INT. ARMADILLO 

Max is bolting. The DOWNHOLE PRESSURE GAUGE NEEDLE jolts. Max 
doesn't see it. He  keeps working. 

EXT. DRILLING SITE 

Harry's watching the work. Out of the corner of his eye... THE 
DRILLING ARM  KICKS. Harry turns to it. Nothing happens. His eyes 
move back to Chick and Bear,  then back to the drilling arm. It 
kicks up again. Just a few inches. 

Harry Chick. Unbolt the tranny. 

Chick We just put it in. 

Harry Do it. NOW. 

Chick, confused, starts unbolting the tranny. Suddenly the well 
kicks hard, one  foot high. Chick's jostled. BANG!! The RIG KICKS 
HARD, THREE FEET, bucking Chick  off. 

Chick scrambles back up to the drill platform. 

The ground shakes. a terrific TREMBLER rumbles through the 
valley. Harry, Max  and Bear cling to the side of the Armadillo. 
Chick's nearly thrown off. 

Harry 
(cont'd)
 GET THE TRANNY OUTTA THERE! WE LOSE THE TRANNY, WE'RE DEAD  
MEN!! 

Harry climbs up to the DRILL PLATFORM. The GROUND SHAKES 
violently, throwing  harry and Chick around the top of the drill 
platform. 

Harry Max, you gotta get those bolts undone! 

INT. ARMADILLO - REAR COMPARTMENT 

Max is furiously unbolting the TRANNY HOUSING. There are two 
bolts to go. He  ratches one off.... 

Max I'm doin' it, I'm doin' it. 

Max gets to the last bolt.... 

Harry 
(V.O.)
 Go Max, go Max, get the last bolt....! 

Max gets the last bolt undone. 

Max DONE!! 

EXT. ARMADILLO - DRILL PLATFORM 

Chick and Harry pull the unfastened TRANNY HOUSING out of the 
Armadillo as -- 

INT. ARMADILLO - REAR COMPARTMENT 

Max stares at the DOWNHOLE PRESSURE GAUGES, groping through the 
compartment for  his helmet. 

Max Pressure's through the roof! Shit, where's my helmet....!? 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

Suddenly the DRILLING ARM jolts upward, lifting the ARMADILLO SIX 
FEET off the  ground. 

Chick She's gonna blow! 

Harry MAX, GET THE HELL OUT OF THERE!!! 

INT. ARMADILLO - REAR COMPARTMENT 

Max is thrown against a wall of the rear compartment. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

The DRILLING ARM KICKS again, six feet this time, tossing the 
Armadillo over on  two wheels. 

INT. ARMADILLO - REAR COMPARTMENT 

Max is SLAMMED against the wall again. Terrified, he grabs for 
his helmet and  locks the NECK SEALS. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

A DEEP RUMBLING emanates from the drilling hole, coming seemingly 
from the  ASTEROID'S CORE. Harry gets to his feet and SLAMS HIS 
FIST against the  Armadillo's SIDE. 

Harry CLEAR THE RIG! 

Everyone scatters.... 

INT. ARMADILLO - REAR COMPARTMENT 

Max, helmet on, is frantically scrambling to the airlock, but 
there's no time... 



Max I CAN'T DEPRESSURIZE!! 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

WIth an awesome force, the DRILLING HOLE BLOWS. The DRILLING PIPE 
EXPLODES  upward, lifting the DRILLING ARM and the ENTIRE 
ARMADILLO VEHICLE with it. THE  ENTIRE RIG blows upward into 
space. 

INT. ARMADILLO - REAR COMPARTMENT 

Max punches the DOOR LOCK without depressurising the cabin and is 
sucked  violently out of the rear compartment into open space. 

EXT. SPACE OVER ASTEROID SURFACE 

FIFTY FEET OF DRILL PIPE, THE DRILLING ARM, and the entire 
ARMADILLO RIG with  MAX trailing, BLOWS into space. MAX'S FACE is 
a screaming mask of terror and  confusion, reaching out, but 
there's no one to catch him....Harry and the guys  watch in 
helpless silence as the drill rig and Max ascend into space. 

Chick Max.....No. No. No. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL - DAY 

Skip motions to Golden. He comes over. 

Skip They just lost the rig. The hole blew out. 

Golden takes the news stoically. He thinks, looking across the 
room at Temple.  He looks at the clock. ONE HOUR AND FORTY 
MINUTES TO GO. 

Golden Say nothing. 

EXT. FREEDOM - DRILLING SITE 

Silence. A stark tableau. Harry and the men standing there, just 
watching.  Devastated, confused, in shock. This is a total 
catastrophe. The mission is  over. 

Sharp nods to Pitts. Pitts picks up the REMOTE NUCLEAR DETONATOR. 

Sharp Stamper, you ready to blow this? Let's get outta here...! 

Harry ignores him. He won't accept defeat. 

Harry Chick, get your butt over here. 

Chick drags his ass over to Harry. 

Chick Yeah. 

Harry We're gonna fix this - make it work. If we weld those two 
together and  go in one speed.... 

Chick Harry.... 

Harry Get your ass up here! 

Chick doesn't move. The two men stare at each other. 

Chick I've been with you fourteen years. I've never said this to 
you, never  thought I would. It's over. 

Chick walks off toward the shuttle. Bear joins him. 

Harry, atop of the Armadillo, looks around. His head drops...he's 
burning up.  His fist clenches the HALF MEDALLION in his hand 
(where is it - clipped to suit  - in pouch of suit?)
 His eyes shut tightly. He is going to will victory from  defeat. 
He will not give up. 

CAMERA'S at low angle, giving Harry a larger-than-life look. 

Harry hears something. A LOW RUMBLE. It is confusing. It sounds 
like......an  ARMADILLO ENGINE. 

Harry opens his eyes. He slowly turns and looks -- 

ACROSS THE VALLEY - ON THE DISTANT RIDGE - The front bumper of 
A.J.'s Armadillo  inches over the ridge crest. 

HARRY, for the first time on the asteroid, smiles. Miracles do 
happen. 

HARRY CHICK...BEAR!!! 

Chick and Bear about ready to enter the Freedom's airlock, stop 
and turn. They  see A.J.'S ARMADILLO ROARING down the hillside 
onto the drilling site. 

EXT. FREEDOM - DRILLING SITE 

A.J. and Lev roar up to the drilling site in the Independence's 
Armadillo. They  come down a hill spectacularly without brakes 
and it piles into shit, knocking  things down. 

Lev and A.J. bounce up to Chick and Bear.....hugs and high-fives 
go around. 

Bear A.J. Frost. Back from the dead. 

Chick Now you can die with us. 

Harry All the bits are gone, A.J. I've been inventing drill bits 
for  twenty-five years and I don't know what to use. 

A.J. You wouldn't happen to need a diamond tipper, would you? 

A.J. pulls out the POUCH OF DIAMONDS, found on the ridge. 

Harry Boys, we're back in business! 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL - DAY 

Golden stares at the wall. Grace is curled up on a chair in the 
corner. 

Harry 
(V.O.)
 We have good news folks. A.J. and the Russian just showed up. No  
other survivors. 

Grace shuts her eyes, smiling. Sobbing. 

EXT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - AFTERNOON 

Chick shuts off an ARC WELDER and moves aside, letting Harry view 
a DRILL BIT  with A.J.'S DIAMONDS mounted on the top like 
diamonds in a ring setting. Harry  and the guys smile. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

The NEWLY CREATED DRILL BIT lowers into the drilling hole and 
begins turning. It  CHEWS into the shit down below, WHIRRING and 
RIPPING and......descends quickly. 

Chick It worked! She's goin' through her like a hot knife through 
butter! 

BEGIN MONTAGE

The men drill a shitload of feet in very little time. It is a 
feverish pace,  their teamwork perfectly timed, as if 
choreographed. 

QUICK CUTS

--A.J. working the levers on the drill platform. 

--Hydraulic tongs clamping, unclamping on pipe. 

--Bear hoisting pipe. 

--Chick and Bear waiting with connecting pipe. 

--The drilling arm going up and down. 

--Newly connected drill pipes descending into the hole. 

--Harry watching, shouting orders. 

--There are serious wind storms, giving Harry, A.J., and the 
other guys  problems. So severe they knock guys across the 
asteroid. 

END MONTAGE 

INT. MISSION CONTROL 

Skip looks at thermal readings with alarm. 

Skip Dan, the surface is heating up! 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

Harry Time, A.J. 

A.J. One hour. 

Harry Distance, Chick. 

Chick Eight hundred and twenty feet, Harry. 

Harry We gotta do 180 in thirty minutes. 

Chick Downhole pressure's goin' through the roof! 

Harry Stop! Shut down. 

Chick throws the lever. The drill pipe stops turning. 

A.J. Harry, we can't stop. 

Harry Got to, kid. No choice. 

A.J. Drill right through the pressure to pay dirt. 

Harry That's crazy. 

A.J. Sometimes crazy works. 

Harry and A.J. stare at each other. 

Harry Chick, A.J.'s callin' this one. 

A.J. Full throttle! 

Chick throws the lever. The DRILL PIPE descends on full throttle. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL - DAY 

All the TECHNICIANS stand, staring at the CENTRAL BOARD, where a 
graph shows the  drilling progress. 

Flip Nine hundred and eighty...Nine ninety...they're into the 
fault, they're  doing it. 

Golden looks at the CLOCK. THIRTY-ONE MINUTES TO GO. He twists 
his wedding ring. 



Golden Now just get the thing in the hole. 

All the TECHNICIANS stare at their monitors. The atmosphere is 
thick with  tension. Clark chews his nails. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

The HOLE'S finished, the drill pipe's been pulled; A.J. drives 
the ARMADILLO  safely away from the site. 

Watts and Sharp roll a GURNEY containing the NUCLEAR DEVICE 
(a massive stainless  steel tube)
 down Freedom's cargo bay RAMP toward the hole. Harry and all the  
Roughnecks stand by the HOLE. 

Harry One thousand feet. 

Chick 
(smiles)
 Thousand and three, Harry. With a half hour to spare. 

Sharp and Watts roll the NUCLEAR DEVICE GURNEY past the 
Roughnecks up to the  drilling hole. 

Harry Get the pipe and bit outta there. 

Chick gets inside the Armadillo. Grabs the stick-shift. 
Compresses the clutch  and throws it in reverse. 

THE DRILL PIPE begins to reverse out of the hole. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL 

Skip She's gettin' hotter! Gotta mean gas - methane, helium, 
probably water  vapor. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

The DRILL PIPE turns sloely, retracting from the hole. Bear, atop 
the drilling  platform, is working on something with a wrench. 

Bear accidently drops his wrench. It falls on the turbine's 
RIPPED MESH  PROTECTIVE SCREEN and hangs there. Bear looks at it 
nervously and reaches...THE  WRENCH falls into the turbine 
spinning at six-thousand r.p.m. With a GRINDING  SQUEAL, the 
wrench shrapnel blows out of the turbine and -- 

THE DRILLING ARM reverses speeds and VIOLENTLY THRUSTS THE PIPE 
FORWARD,  buckling it. A piece of the drill string is BLOWN OUT, 
smashing into Sharp's  helmet, spider-webbing his faceshield. 
He's out cold. 

Harry and the guys dive away from the hole. Chick, confused, 
works the clutch  furiously to no avail. THE DRILLING ARM RAMS 
THE PIPE back down the hole, where  it BUCKLES, BENDS AND BREAKS 
IN HALF. 

Tito tends to Sharp..his face has lost all color. Harry 
approaches the hole.  Looks down. FIFTY FEET DOWN IS A MESS OF 
MANGLED PIPE, blocking the hole. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL - DAY 

Golden continues looking at the THERMAL IMAGING. 

Golden Harry, c'mon, we got thirty minutes. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

Harry Well, Dan, you're just going to have to goddamn wait 'CAUSE 
WE GOTTA BIG  PROBLEM UP HERE IN HELL. 
(turns to guys)
 Somebody's gotta go down there. 

Chick Don't look at me. 

Bear I can't even get my foot in there. 

Harry turns and eyes A.J.    A.J. stares down the hole. 

Harry Do or die, kid. 

CLOSE ON A.J. as he peers into the hole. 

A.J. Something I've been meaning to talk to you about. When this 
is all over  and we're back home, I'd like to marry your 
daughter.... 

Harry stares at A.J., the look priceless. 

A.J. 
(cont'd)
 Maybe I'll ask her again later.... 

Harry turns around..looking up at the star-filled sky. A.J. walks 
over to  Sharp...who's coming to now. 

Harry 
(to Golden)
 Oh yeah, Golden? 

Golden 
(V.O.)
 Go ahead, Harry. 

Harry Your shuttle pilot just took a nasty shot from a drill 
string.... 

Golden Is he alright? 

Harry I hope so, he's gotta get us off this shithole. 

INT. DRILLING HOLE 

A.J, tied to a SAFETY TETHER, comes down the hole with a HAND-
HELD CUTTER and a  LENGTH OF ROPE. He reaches the obstruction. 
The DRILL PIPE has been mashed,  bent, buckled. Severed ends stab 
into the sides of the hole. A.J. starts cutting  with the hand-
held cutter. 

EXT. DRILLING HOLE 

The guys stand there, watching. Nothing happens. Agonising 
seconds pass.  Suddenly the ground rumbles. Another EARTHQUAKE. 
It slowly starts to subside. 

INT. DRILLING HOLE 

The hole shakes. A.J. freezes, sweating. 

Harry 
(V.O.)
 A.J., we need you. I need everything you got. 

A.J. wrestles with the severed pipes, untangling them, tying the 
ROPE to them.  He gives the rope a tug. Chick and Bear, above, 
pull up the broken pipes. 

EXT. DRILLING HOLE 

Sharp Enter interface with the weapon. 

Pitts clicks a six digit code into a DIGITAL PAD on the DEVICE'S 
REMOTE  DETONATOR. 

Pitts Device armed. 

The NUCLEAR DEVICE has a small SLED with RATCHET WHEELS to let it 
slide down the  hole slowly. Sharp and Watts lift one end of the 
gurney. THE NUCLEAR DEVICE  slides off the gurney toward the 
MOUTH OF THE DRILLING HOLE. 

NT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL - DAY 

The thermal and seismic sensors BEING TRANSMITTED FROM FREEDOM 
START GOING CRAZY 



Skip It's a mess up there...! 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

ANOTHER TEMBLOR hits, the worst yet, 9.7 on Earth. Watts falls, 
losing her grip  on the gurney; her end collapses. THE NUCLEAR 
DEVICE lurches sideways off the  gurney and rolls away from the 
drilling hole...... 

The NUCLEAR DEVICE slides off the gurney.... 

INT. DRILLING HOLE 

A.J. experiences the DEEPEST, MOST SINISTER RUMBLE YET, emanating 
form the  asteroid's core, something from hell. There's a 
horrendous WHOOSHING SOUND. 

A WINDSTORM OF PEBBLE, like a blowing tornado, whooshes up from 
the hole,  smashing into A.J.'S FACESHIELD. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

Everyone whirls around in the sound's direction as -- 

ACROSS THE VALLEY FLOOR - A 100 FOOT METHANE GEYSER erupts, 
spewing a PLUME OF  HIDEOUS GREENISH GAS into space. Then another 
200 FEET HIGH! Another 500 FEET  HIGH! The ASTEROID has become 
alive. The geyser's eruptions loosen the  asteroid's surface 
material and -- 

INT. DRILLING HOLE 

A.J. THIS SUCKS.... 

A.J. is whooshed violently out of the hole. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

PEBBLES AND HOT STEAM BLASTS from the drilling hole. Everyone 
recoils.... 

Harry Get back!! 

A.J. shoots out of the pipe, tethering the SAFETY LINE behind 
him, blowing into  space. The safety tether snaps and RIPS off. 
A.J. is 70 feet off the surface.  Harry dives for his ripped 
tether. Catching it, inches before A.J.'s thrown into  space. 

Harry and Bear grab A.J.'s safety tether and begin to pull him 
down. Chick  stares at something O.S., his jaw drops. 

Chick This thing definitely doesn't like us. 

CHUNKS OF THE ASTEROID, some as big as trucks, others as big as 
houses, dislodge  from the ASTEROID SURFACE and, slowly at first, 
but with terrifyingly increasing  speed and momentum..... 

.... they start rolling. 

HARRY AND THE GUYS just stand there, disbelieving what they're 
seeing. 

On come the ROCKS and ICE CHUNKS, rolling. As they hit smaller 
surface rocks,  they take little hops, and bigger hops, until 
they are BOUNDING across the  surface. Harry lashes A.J.'s tether 
to the Armadillo. 

Harry and the guys run for their lives. 

In the midst of this -- 

-- A 500 FOOT HIGH GEYSER erupts next to the drilling hole. Pitts 
gets blasted  by the geyser, which blows him across the asteroid 
floor, SLAMMING him into the  parked Armadillo. A BOULDER rolls 
at Pitts and squashes him against the  ARMADILLO , killing him. 

A 20 FOOT ICE BOULDER rolls toward A.J.'s SAFETY TETHER. 

A.J., suspended 70 feet off the asteroid surface, looks down at 
the ONCOMING ICE  BOULDER. A.J., terrified, tries to unbuckle the 
tether, but he can't in time. 

The boulder hits A.J.'s tether, rolling over it, flattening it to 
the asteroid  surface, which causes -- 

--A.J., with a JOLT, to be yanked toward the surface. A.J. 
scrambles with his  safety harness. 

Chick, next to the Armadillo, sees A.J.'s plight. He dives 
inside, engages the  gears. The Armadillo ROARS toward the 
oncoming ICE BOULDER. 

A.J., terrified, continues to descend as -- 

Chick, driving the Armadillo, rams the ICE BOULDER just as it's 
about to roll  over A.J. The boulder hops up, SMASHES down on the 
Armadillo's hood, CRUSHING  the steel compartment around Chick, 
and gently rolls over onto -- 

A.J., who log-rolls under the Armadillo, as the ice boulder 
WHOMPS down and  keeps rolling. 

THE NUCLEAR DEVICE is rolling across the asteroid's surface. 
Pebbles and debris  CLANGING off the device's REMOTE 
DETONATOR..... 

Harry bounds toward the Armadillo. THE LARGEST, JAGGED ROCK rolls 
at the  vehicle. Harry's caught. There's no place to turn. The 
rocks rolls straight at  him. Twenty feet....10 feet....Harry 
FALLS heavily to the ground. 

Harry gets up and dives down inside a fox-hoe-sized INDENTATION 
in the asteroid  surface.... 

The BOULDER rolls right over him. 

Finally the quake stops. The situation stabilises. Everyone gets 
to their feet.  Harry and A.J. get up. They look off at -- 

The MASSIVE BOULDERS rolling away in the distance, smashing into 
other rock  formations. 

Harry picks up a DIAMOND. It SPARKLES in the light. Chick grabs 
one. Holds it  up, marvelling at it. The MASSIVE BOULDERS rolling 
away in the distance,  smashing into other rock formations. 

Harry picks up a DIAMOND. It SPARKLES in the light. Chick grabs 
one. Holds it  up, marvelling at it. 

Sharp, with bruises on his face, looks through his cracked 
faceshield down at  Pitt's corpse. 

Sharp He's dead. 

Harry Put it down, Chick. 

Chick tosses down the diamond and follows Harry. Everyone checks 
themselves.  Looks at others. There's no talk, no time to lose. 
They reconvene, by the  NUCLEAR DEVICE. It's dented. The 
alumniium gurney is smashed, mangled. 

Sharp Three on that side, the rest over here. 

They hoist the nuclear device and carry it to the drilling hole. 
They plug one  end of the nuke in the drilling hole and lift the 
other. The NUKE begins to  insert down the hole. Suddenly Sharp 
tries to grab a TUBULAR PIECE OF ALUMINIUM  from the broken 
gurney. 

Sharp 
(cont'd)
 Stop...! 

-- rams it into the wheels of the NUKE'S RATCHET-WHEEL DELIVERY 
SLED. The nuke  stops inserting into the hole. Sharp inspects the 
REMOTE DETONATOR. 

Sharp 
(cont'd)
 The remote's shot. 
(looks up)
 It'll have to be manually  detonated. 

Chick What's that mean? 

Pause. 

Harry Means one of us ain't leaving. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL 

Golden addresses the room. 

Golden The situation: the hole is drilled but the remote 
detonator is not  functional. One of the crew is going to stay 
behind and....
(deep breath)
  ...manually detonate the device. 

Golden looks over at Grace. She is stunned. The news is just 
sinking in. 

Golden Don't stay for this. 

Grace I'm not leaving. 

Temple In 18 minutes we will be at Zero Barrier. 
(to Grace)
 Your father better  be a man of his word. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - CABIN 

PAN FROM HARRY...to A.J. to...to Chick....to Lev...to Bear. 
Everyone is huddled  inside the cabin. 

The SMASHED REMOTE DETONATOR, a 2000-foot spool-drum of 
ELECTRICAL WIRE and a  KNIFE sit on the table. 

Sharp 
(stoically)
 I'd trade places with any one of you. But we need two people  to 
fly this mother back. So, we either all stay or you guys draw. 

Sharp raises a BUNDLE OF ELECTRICAL WIRES in his hand. The crew's 
going to draw  straws. The highest tension yet. No one breathes, 
no one moves. 

Sharp Who's first? 
(no response)
 Clockwise then. 

Sharp holds the WIRE STRAND BUNDLE in front of Lev. 

Lev stares at it. He smiles nervously and reaches...and draws. 
The strand is  LONG. Lev exhales. Next... 

Chick, Chick stares at the bundle, sweating. He grabs a strand. 
Pulls slowly.  LONG. He exhales. Next... 

Bear. He stares at the bundle, thinking, choosing. He grabs and 
pulls quickly,  decisively. LONG. Two strands remain, and two 
men, Harry and A.J. It's A.J.'s  turn.... 

A.J. stares at the wire strands - not a bundle now. A.J. shifts 
in his chair.  The matter will be decided on this last pull. A.J. 
looks at Harry. They lock  eyes. 

Harry Your turn. 

A.J. I ain't gonna draw against you Harry. 

Chick 
(starts to get up)
 I can't watch this. 

Harry 
(stern, hard)
 Sit down, Chick. 

Chick sits down. Harry looks at A.J. 

Harry Draw. 

A.J. stares at the two strands. Gets used to the idea. He reaches 
and begins to  pull. Stops. Chooses the other strand. And pulls. 
It is SHORT. A.J. stares at  the SHORT STRAND OF WIRE in his 
hand. We see a fear on his face that gets  covered by a small 
smile. 

A.J. Well, I guess I won. Now I'm the guy who gets to save the 
Earth. 

A.J. takes off the half medallion. Harry takes off his half 
medallion. 

A.J. We said we'd join these after we drilled the hole. It just 
ain't gonna be  on Earth. 

They slide the two halves together to make a whole. Harry and 
A.J. exchange a  long look. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT 

Watts flips switches. Suddenly the jets ignite! 

Watts Ignition! She's started! 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL 

Skip turns to Golden excitedly. 

Skip They got Freedom goin'! 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - CARGO BAY 

A.J. and Harry stand in the airlock, helmets on. Harry carries 
the two thousand  foot spool-drum of wire. The airlock opens. 
Harry and A.J. descend onto the  asteroid. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL 

Golden looks at the CLOCK running down - ten thirty-three... Ten 
thirty-two... Ten thirty-one... 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

Harry and A.J. approach the NUCLEAR DEVICE. It's half in, half 
out of the  drilling hole, as they left it. Harry and A.J. 
alligator-clamp the end of the  wire spool-drum onto the nuke's 
DETONATION DEVICE. 

A.J You never answered my question. 

They finish attaching the wire. 

A.J. pulls the piece of TUBULAR ALUMINIUM out of the nuke's 
ratchet wheel  delivery sled. The NUKE descends downhole, slowly 
spooling out wire from the  SPOOL DRUM. 

A.J. About Grace, Harry. 
(laughs nervously)
 I know it ain't gonna happen now,  but....if things were 
different...What would you say...? 

Harry walks back toward Freedom. A.J. follows. 

Harry I always wanted a son. And if I had....I'd want him to be 
like you. 

Harry hands him the pipe section. 

Harry 
(cont'd)
 You're going to need some magic in the world. You can marry  
her, A.J. 

A.J. laughs, being told at this dire time in his life. He looks 
at Harry with a  hint of bittersweet smile. 

A.J. Mean "could have...?" 

Harry No. Go home, A.J. Marry Grace. 

A.J. I'm not going home Harry. 

With one hand, Harry stabs the airlock door, and then with a 
small pipe clamp,  rips A.J.'s air tubes off. 

Harry It's my hole, I drilled it, and I'm staying with it till 
the end. 

Harry grabs him, throws his kicking, screaming body into the 
airlock. A.J. is  choking. 

Harry 
(cont'd)
 She's always going to be my little girl. 

The door shuts automatically. Harry is now alone. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - AIRLOCK 

A.J. explodes from the airlock into the cabin. 

A.J. Goddamn it, HARRY....! 

A.J. lunges for the airlock. 

Sharp grabs A.J. with his good arm, helped by Bear..holding him 
back. 

A.J. LET ME GO....LET ME GO....!! 

SHARP YOU HAVE NO OXYGEN...YOUR TUBES ARE RIPPED...LET IT 
GO....!! 

A.J., sobbing, furious, POUNDS on the AIRLOCK WINDOW, staring at 
Harry outside. 

A.J. 
(pounding on the door)
 HARRY!! 

Harry turns and walks back to the drilling hole. Sharp looks at 
him. 

Sharp This guy really is a hero.... 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL REAR ROOM 

Skip Director? It's Mr. Stamper. He wants to talk to his 
daughter. 

Golden looks over at Grace. Their eyes meet.... 

A N.A.S.A. Tech hands Grace a mike and exits. She stares at the 
static on the  monitor. Harry's face fades in and out. Grace 
knows something is very wrong from  her father's strained, tired 
face. She forces a smile. INTERCUT with Harry  inside the 
Armadillo

Grace Daddy. 

Harry 
(V.O.)
 Grace. I...
(sighs)
 This is so hard for me. I don't have.... 

Tears start to well up in her eyes. 

Harry 
(V.O.)
 
(cont'd)
 ...I just....want you to know how much I love you. 

Grace I'm so proud of you, Daddy. 

Grace wipes a tear from her face. 

Harry 
(V.O.)
 
(looking at Earth)
 It's so beautiful up here. So pure. 
(swallows  hard)
 I remember something I read once..."The world is a fine 
place...and worth  fighting for."  looks at Earth, smiles)
 Gracie, I'm just an iron-ass-warrior doin'  what's best. 
(pause)
 Take care of A.J. I'll look in on you from time to time.... 

Harry pulls off the video link. Grace's monitors go black. Grace 
touches the  monitor, as Harry's face fades away. 

Her knees buckle. She sinks to the floor. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

Harry looks at the detonator in hand. 

Harry You have three minutes and I'm not waiting. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT 

Watts and Sharp settle into the cockpit and begin flipping 
switches. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

Harry, all business now, situates himself next to the nuke. The 
manual detonator  in his hand. 

Harry Let's go, Sharp. Get the hell off this rock. I WILL push 
this button. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT 

Sharp hits the THRUSTER SWITCH. 

EXT. FREEDOM 

The booster rockets SPUTTER and die. 

INT. FREEDOM - COCKPIT 

Nothing happens. He HITS it again. Again. 

Watts unbuckles and goes to the ENGINE IGNITION SYSTEM. 

The timer continues counting down to one thirty-four... One 
thirty-three... One thirty-two... 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL 

Skip The thrusters are down! 32 seconds. 

EXT. ASRTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

Harry looks irritably at the SHUTTLE'S SPUTTERING THRUSTER. 

Harry Sharp, you better get those engines goin'. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - SERVICE HATCH 

The timer counts 23...22...21. 

Watts is frantically adjusting the FUEL MODULATOR'S VALVES... 

Sharp Watts, we gotta get that thing going! 

Watts THE INTERIORR VALVE'S STUCK! 

Lev crowds in next to her. 

Watts 
(cont'd)
 
(to Lev)
 BACK OFF!! YOU DON'T KNOW THIS COMPONENT!! 

Lev backs off. Keeps looking at the modulator, curiously. 

IN THE COCKPIT - the Timer reads 10...9...9...SHARP keeps hitting 
the THRUSTER  SWITCH. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL 

Golden paces. Technicians stare pessimistically at consoles. 

Golden Stamper, you gave me your word. You have five seconds. 
PRESS THE  BUTTON! 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT 

Temple 
(V.O.)
 Sharp, I NEED A SOLUTION! 

BACK TO LEV , Watts and Sharp. 

Sharp Sir with all due respect, if I knew the PROBLEM, I'd give a 
SOLUTION,  SIR..! 

Temple Well, find a solution!! 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

Harry is looking at the shuttle. Close-Up on finger ready to pull 
the trigger. 

Harry SHARP, WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU DOING? GET THE HELL OUT OF 
HERE! 

Harry's eyes close as the clock counts -10...-11...-12. 

Temple STAMPER DETONATE! 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - SERVICE HATCH 

Lev 
(to Watts)
 WE HAVE JUST THE SAME SHIT PART IN RUSSIA!! SOMETIMES IT NOT  
WORK SO WE HIT!! YOU GOTTA GIVE IT WHACK!! WHACK!! HIT!! 

Watts WHAT!!? 

Lev GIVE IT WHACK!! 

Lev grab a wrench and goes ballistic. SMASHES it down on the 
component, AGAIN  and AGAIN and AGAIN. We hear JET FUEL COURSE 
through the component and -- 

-- SHARP hits the IGNITION SWITCH and the THRUSTERS FIRE. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - SHUTTLE FREEDOM 

Shuttle Freedom lifts off the asteroid on full REVERSE THRUSTER 
POWER, like a  Harrier jet. It ascends backwards, falling away 
from the asteroid, away from  Earth, toward the Moon. 

Harry is a solitary figure, left behind. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT 

Sharp, Watts, A.J., Lev and Bear watch Harry becoming smaller and 
smaller on the  asteroid. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

Harry takes his final breaths. Looks around. 

Harry All right, son-of-a-bitch, it's just you and me.... 

Harry's FINGER compresses on the detonator button.... 

A GEYSER OF STEAM next to the drilling hole BLAT up to five feet 
away. A SECOND  GEYSER, directly underneath Harry, BLOWS. The 
MANUAL DETONATOR flies from  Harry's hand as he's knocked 
backward -- 

-- into the drilling hole! 

INT. DRILLING HOLE 

Harry falls ass-first down the hole, his PRO-GRAVITY THRUSTERS 
pushing him  further and further down. Harry's FINGERS GOUGE into 
the walls of the hole. He  scissors his legs. HIS BOOTS scrape 
the sides. He begins climbing up out of the  hole....We see that 
his air has been punctured. He's losing pressure. He starts  to 
choke. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM 

They've ascended to a safe distance. 

Sharp Something's wrong. 

A.J. Don't worry. He'll come through. 

Sharp We should have detonation by now. 

A.J. Harry doesn't fail. 

Sharp We're going back. 

A.J. What? 

Sharp Every life, that you know, will die....unless that nuke is 
detonated. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

HARRY'S GLOVED HANDS grip the sides of the hole. Then his helmet 
appears. He  looks across the asteroid surface to the MANUAL 
DETONATOR, lying in the dirt. 

The nuke has now descended several hundred feet into the hole. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM 

WE MOVE DOWN the faces of the terrified men, looking down on the 
craggy  asteroid.... 

Chick 
(unsure)
 That means we might die too.... 

Sharp Watts, prepare for re-landing. NOW!! 

Watts, frozen with fear, begins hitting switches. 

EXT. ASTEROID SURFACE - DRILLING SITE 

Harry crawls out of the hole. 

The nuke is at the bottom of the hole. Harry runs, gasping for 
air, bounding  across the asteroid surface, dodging geysers and 
rolling debris. He dives for  the detonator. He stares long and 
hard. A TEAR wells in his eye. His finger  presses on the 
detonator...sweat pours over his face.... 

Harry I beat you. 

SLOW-MOTION CLOSE-UP on Harry's finger as it presses the 
detonator. 

EXT. SPACE 

The nuclear device DETONATES. A spectacular concussion. The 
ASTEROID SPLITS in  two halves, as planned, like a split diamond. 
The TWO BLOWN PIECES wing off into  space, on new vector angles 
which might miss the Earth.... 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM - COCKPIT 

The detonation ROCKS the cabin. Everyone's violently buffeted 
around. 

Watts Houston, we have detonation! 

Watts fumbles for the reverse switches as the flames from the 
explosion grow  CLOSER....She hits the directional THRUSTERS, 
jamming it as hard as it will  go...the flames bite up at them. 
The shuttle veers off toward Earth. 

A.J. Harry.... 

A.J. and the others stare out the cockpit window as the NUCLEAR 
FISSION  EXPLOSION FLAMES OUT, the halves of the asteroid wing 
off. 

EXT. AROUND THE WORLD - MONTAGE OF IMAGES 

IN EXTREME SLOW MO, we see images around the world. WALL STREET 
deserted....a  crowded BAR with people huddled around a 
T.V....Extremely tight on a TEAR  falling form a woman's 
face....ENGLISH FARMERS in a corn field.....a FATHER  holding his 
SON as they watch the brilliant flaming sky....Golden closes his  
eyes and falls to his seat....Arms raise in unison....PEOPLE 
embrace....AT THE  PYRAMIDS, dappled in firelight, hundreds 
praying.... 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL 

Grace is quietly weeping. 

THE ASTEROID'S DETONATION is computer-imaged on the Central 
Board. WE SEE the  ASTEROID'S TWO HALVES, moving in new 
directions. The Technicians stare in  wonderment. 

Golden Where are they, Flip? Give me some angles, give me some 
directions,  give me speeds... 

Flip 
(analysing new data)
 The new courses are....they're gonna miss us! 

The Technicians CHEER. Grace looks up. Wipes her tears. Golden 
approaches her. 

Golden I just want to tell you I'm proud to know the daughter of 
the man who  just saved the world. 

EXT. ARIZONA - SHUTTLE LANDING AREA 

Shuttle Freedom touches down. N.A.S.A. QUARANTINE VEHICLES race 
out to meet it. 

INT. N.A.S.A. - MISSION CONTROL 

N.A.S.A.TEHNICIANS sit at consoles, exhausted. There are Coke 
cans, coffee mugs,  cigarettes overflowing ashtrays. Jimbo, Theo 
and Pearl, wearing V.I.P. VISITORS  BUTTONS, stand at the back. 

Jimbo This definitely doesn't look like a glamorous job. 

INT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM 

A.J., Chick and Bear unbuckle, begin to rise from seats. 

Chick I'm dyin' for a Budweiser. 

Sharp Stay seated. Let the medical quarantine trucks set up. 

Bear I ain't gettin' another enema from Nurse Ratchet. 

A.J., Chick and Bear look at each other. 

A.J. What would Harry do? 

Bear I think he'd go get a beer. 

EXT. SHUTTLE FREEDOM 

The EMERGENCY HATCH DOOR BLOWS in front of surprised N.A.S.A. 
QUARANTINE  TECHNICIANS. 

EXT. ARIZONA - SHUTTLE LANDING AREA 

A.J., Chick and Bear walk away from the shuttle. All he N.A.S.A. 
QUARANTINE  MEDICS are looking for them. 

Chick What are you lookin' at? 

Bear Yeah, okay, you're right, we're the studs who just blew up 
the Death  Star. 

A wave of fans are held back by MILITARY POLICE. 

Sharp, holding his shoulder in pain, is helped across the tarmac 
by Watts. A VET  BYSTANDER comes up to Sharp and drapes an 
American flag over his shoulders. 

Temple, with a huge grin, approaches Sharp. Temple salutes Sharp. 

Among the masses, Chick catches sight of Denise. Tommy stands 
next to her,  waving a small flag, proud as can be. 

Grace runs toward A.J.; he sees her and runs to her. 

They fall into each others arms. Grace is crying. A.J. is crying. 
They kiss.  A.J. looks up at the sky. 

A.J. He's up there, Grace. And he'll never die. Will you marry 
me? I gotcha a  new rock.... 

A.J. pulls out one of the DIAMONDS from the asteroid surface, as 
big as a  doorknob, about two thousand karats. It glitters in the 
sunlight. Grace stares  at it, agog. 

As we PULL BACK and CAMERA TILTS TO THE SKIES ABOVE. 

Where Harry Stamper's soul remains..... 

THE END




