


<b><!--
</b>if (window!= top)
top.location.href=location.href
<b>// -->
</b>
   Bottle Rocket by Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson






                     BOTTLE ROCKET

       screenplay by Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson




EXT. ALLEY. DAY

ANTHONY and DIGNAN walk down an alley behind a convenience
store. Anthony's nineteen. He's got on a red jacket with an
Enco patch. Dignan's twenty. He has a buzz-cut and wears a
short-sleeved terrycloth shirt. He carries a vinyl tennis
bag. It's got a pouch for a racquet but no racquet in it.

                         DIGNAN
            What color hair does he have?

                         ANTHONY
            Black hair. Paul Michael Glaser.

                         DIGNAN
            Making Hutch David Soul?

                         ANTHONY
            Right. The blond guy.

                         DIGNAN
            OK. That's wrong.

                         ANTHONY
            Dignan, it's --

                         DIGNAN
            Plus where's Huggie Bear?

                         ANTHONY
            He's not there. Huggie Bear isn't
            in every single episode.

                         DIGNAN
            I think you might of dreamed this
            one, Anthony.

                         ANTHONY
            No. It's a real episode. The killer
            is leading him across the city by
            calling different pay phones.

They climb over a high wooden fence.

EXT. BACKYARD. DAY

They walk through somebody's backyard.

                         DIGNAN
            Why?

                         ANTHONY
            As part of his plan. I don't know
            why.

                         DIGNAN
            See, that's what I'm saying. It has
            the logic of a dream.

                         ANTHONY
            The point is the killer always
            goes, May I speak to Starsky? He
            says his name.

                         DIGNAN
                   (pause)
            What does Starsky say?

                         ANTHONY
            He says. This is he.

                         DIGNAN
            This is he?

                         ANTHONY
            No. This is he.

They climb another fence. There's big house on the other side.

INT. HOUSE. DAY

Anthony and Dignan are inside walking through the foyer.
Anthony goes up the stairway quickly and quietly.

Dignan walks to the master bedroom. Goes in the closet and
grabs a box. Looks inside. Dumps it into his bag.

Anthony goes into a bedroom. Looks in a dresser and takes
out two watches. Digs through some socks and finds some cash.

Dignan goes in the study. Opens a drawer and closes it.
Opens another and lifts out a set of thin leather coin books.

Anthony's in a kid's room. Looking at posters of a football
player and John McEnroe on the walls. He grabs a walkman and
a calculator. Then suddenly stops moving. He crouches down.
Looks at a shelf of dozens of little metal soldiers. They're
in formations with different uniforms.

Dignan is walking down the hallway as Anthony comes down the
stairs. They walk to the door and go out.

INT. DINER. DAY

A twenty-four hour diner. Anthony and Dignan are eating at
the counter.

                         ANTHONY
            Did you see what I meant about the
            window?

                         DIGNAN
            Kind of. Except we've already got
            the keys.

                         ANTHONY
            That's true. But what if they
            change the locks?

                         DIGNAN
            Would they do that?

                         ANTHONY
            Who knows? That's why I filed it
            down.

Dignan nods.

                         ANTHONY
            Now that window can never be locked.
            It's impossible.

                         DIGNAN
            See, your mind is very good with
            the more mechanical details.
            Whereas my strength would be --

A good-looking WOMAN about forty-five years old interrupts
them.

                         WOMAN
            Can I use your Tabasco?

                         ANTHONY
            Sure.

Anthony hands her a bottle of Tabasco off the counter. She
walks away. Down the counter.

                         ANTHONY
            You don't see many women who like
            Tabasco.

They watch her for a minute. Dignan looks away.

                         ANTHONY
            She's really kind of hot.

                         DIGNAN
                   (looks back at her, nods)
            She's an attractive older woman.

EXT. BOB'S HOUSE. DAY

A huge house with a wide lawn. BOB, who's about twenty-six,
wearing black jeans and a V-neck T-shirt, is spraying down a
battered 1972 Mercedes with a garden hose. He's got his
shirt off and a towel around his neck. Dignan has an
expression of intense concentration as he looks at the car.

                         BOB
            Well, what do you think?

                         DIGNAN
            I don't know, Bob. What about one
            of those?

Dignan points to a new BMW and a Lexus in front of the garage.

                         BOB
            I'm not allowed to drive those.

                         DIGNAN
            Not even for emergencies?

                         BOB
                   (a little angry)
            No.

                         DIGNAN
            I thought your parents were in Italy.

                         BOB
            They are.

                         DIGNAN
            So who's going to know?

                         BOB
            My brother.

                         ANTHONY
            Future Man.

                         BOB
            Who?

                         ANTHONY
            Futute Man. You know. Cause he
            looks like he's from the future.

                         DIGNAN
            He looks like he was designed by
            scientists. For desert warfare.

                         BOB
            That never would of --

                         DIGNAN
            Let's cut the bullshit.

Silence. They all look at the car. Pause.

                         ANTHONY
            It's got a V-8, Dignan.

                         DIGNAN
            What do you think the cops have?

INT. BOB'S HOUSE. DAY

They're sitting at the coffee table in Bob's great big
living room. It's got high ceilings and two Persian rugs.
They're eating sandwiches and chips.

                         BOB
            If you're that worried, maybe we
            should just steal one.

                         DIGNAN
            What are you talking about, Bob?

                         BOB
            Can you use a coaster.

Bob slides a coaster under Dignan's glass.

                         ANTHONY
            Did you ever steal a car bdfore?

                         BOB
            Yeah. I've stolen two cars before.
            One Jaguar. And one Trans-Am. With
            T-Tops. That Trans-Am was fun to
            drive.

                         DIGNAN
            You stole a Trans-Am.

                         BOB
            Yes. I did.

                         DIGNAN
            OK, Bob.

                         BOB
            It's true, Dignan.

                         DIGNAN
            Well. What do you want to do? You
            want to steal one or just drive
            your car?

                         BOB
                   (thinks for a minute)
            I'll just drive my car.

INT. DELI. DAY

Anthony's playing pinball at a machine in the back of a
little grocery store. Dignan's watching.

                         DIGNAN
            Anthony, we'll get two hundred for
            the coin collection alone. That's
            less than what it's appraised at.

                         ANTHONY
            But Dignan, do you really know that
            much about rare coins?

                         DIGNAN
            I know about money, Anthony. I know
            the value of money. Plus the
            earrings are worth three times that.

Anthony looks at Dignan. Dignan points at the pinball machine.

                         DIGNAN
            Your ball.

Dignan tries to hit the flipper.

                         ANTHONY
            I told you not to take the earrings.

Anthony keeps looking at Dignan. Dignan doesn't look up from
the machine. Anthony turns and walks away.

                         DIGNAN
            You got another ball.

Dignan watches him go.

                         DIGNAN
            I'm playing your game.

EXT. SIDEWALK. DAY

They're walking fast down the sidewalk.

                         ANTHONY
            The list, Dignan. I know you
            remember the list because you
            signed it. "Things Dignan was not
            supposed to touch."

                         DIGNAN
            Every valuable item in the house
            was on that list.

                         ANTHONY
            That doesn't make any difference. I
            bought those earrings for my mother
            on her birthday. They have a very
            special value for her.

                         DIGNAN
            Yeah, but I can't be sorting
            through that shit in the middle of
            a burglary. There's just not time
            for it.

                         ANTHONY
            Then you shouldn't of gone in
            there, Dignan. Maybe we should of
            robbed your house. Did you ever
            think of that?

Dignan stops walking. Anthony looks back at him. Pause.

                         ANTHONY
            What?

Dignan turns and starts walking the other way.

                         ANTHONY
            Where are you going?

                         DIGNAN
            I don't appreciate you ridiculing me.

                         ANTHONY
            How was I ridiculing you?

                         DIGNAN
            You're making fun of my family. You
            know there's nothing to steal from
            my mom and Craig. You know exactly
            what you're saying.

                         ANTHONY
            That's not what I meant, Dignan.

They both see something. They keep walking. Dignan looks
back down the sidewalk.

                         DIGNAN
            Did you see that?

                         ANTHONY
            Yeah, I saw it.

                         DIGNAN
            I'm lookout.

                         ANTHONY
            Dignan, it's got an alarm.

                         DIGNAN
            I don't think so. Just reach on in.

                         ANTHONY
            That sets it off.

                         DIGNAN
            No, just do it real quick.
                   (starts down the sidewalk)
            I'll meet you down there.

Dignan cuts into an alley. Anthony turns back. Looks at a
parked car. Looks left and right. Walks to the car and
reaches in the half-open window.

An alarm goes off. Anthony unlocks the door and opens it.
Leans inside. Grabs a wallet off the seat.

A MAN standing on the sidewalk watches Anthony get out of
the car. Anthony looks at him, then walks down the sidewalk
not too fast. He turns down an alley and runs.

EXT. ALLEY. DAY

Anthony comes around the corner and meets Dignan beside a
dumpster. The alarm is still ringing in the distance.
Anthony starts looking through the wallet.

                         ANTHONY
            It had an alarm.

                         DIGNAN
            Yeah, I heard that.

                         ANTHONY
                   (counting the money)
            Five, seven, eight dollars.

He looks at Dignan.

                         DIGNAN
                   (taking the wallet)
            Holy shit. What'd I tell you?

                         ANTHONY
            Eight dollars.

                         DIGNAN
            That's not bad.

Anthony keeps looking at Dignan. Dignan smiles. He hands
Anthony a five dollar bill. Anthony looks at it. He takes it.
He puts it in his pocket. Dignan puts out his hand to shake.
Anthony waits a second. He shakes Dignan's hand for just a
second and walks down the alley. Dignan smiles and walks
behind him.

INT. HAMBURGER PLACE. NIGHT

Anthony and Dignan are sitting at a table with Bob.

                         ANTHONY
            What do herbs have to do with it? I
            don't understand the --

                         BOB
            Pot is an herb. It's just like any
            type of gardening.

                         DIGNAN
            How much could you grow?
            Realistically.

                         BOB
            As much as I want. When these
            plants bud I'll probably have about
            six thousand dollars worth of weed.

                         DIGNAN
            Six thousand dollars? Come on, Bob.

                         BOB
            You should take a look. I have an
            entire crop in my backyard.

                         ANTHONY
            In your backyard? How do you
            protect them?

                         BOB
            It's private property. Plus I have
            Hector.

                         ANTHONY
            Hector woudn't do anything.

                         BOB
            But he's got a loud bark. That's
            the most important thing is a loud
            bark.

                         DIGNAN
            If it's that easy why doesn't
            everybody grow them?

                         BOB
            Good question.

Bob looks at Anthony and Dignan. He suddenly gets worried.

                         BOB
            Don't you guys tell anybody about
            my plants.

                         DIGNAN
            You're paranoid, Bob.

                         BOB
            Yeah, but don't tell anybody.

                         ANTHONY
            Could you grow cinnamon?

                         BOB
            I don't know. Sure, I guess.

                         ANTHONY
            You could make your own cinnamon
            toast.

Bob looks at Anthony for a second. He looks at Dignan. Back
at Anthony.

                         BOB
            Are you a fag?

                         LITTLE RICHARD
            You're the faggot.

Bob turns around to see LITTLE RICHARD, short but muscular,
wearing a down vest and a baseball cap.

                         BOB
            Little Richard. I don't believe it.
            They'll let anybody in this place.
            Sit down.

Little Richard sits down.

                         BOB
            Dignan and Anthony, this is Little
            Richard. He's crazy. Totally nuts.

                         LITTLE RICHARD
                   (smiling)
            I don't know about that.

                         BOB
            Little Richard. Trust me. You're
            insane. Jesus, this guy used to
            carry a percussion bomb around in
            his trunk. You do not want a guy
            like that loose on the streets.

                         LITTLE RICHARD
            It seemed like a good idea at the
            time.

                         BOB
            The one and only Little Richard.

                         DIGNAN
            Are you named after THE Little
            Richard?

                         LITTLE RICHARD
                   (stares at Dignan)
            Ha! Ha! Ha! Why don't you stick it
            up your ass. Great group of guys
            you're hanging out with.

Little Richard goes out the door.

                         DIGNAN
            What was that all about?

                         BOB
            I can't believe you said that.

                         DIGNAN
            What did I say?

                         BOB
            I told you he's crazy.

                         ANTHONY
            But he didn't say anything.

                         DIGNAN
            Hang on a second.

Dignan gets up and walks out of the restaurant. Anthony and
Bob look at each other. They start to get up.

EXT. HAMBURGER PLACE. NIGHT

Anthony and Bob go out the door. Dignan is walking over to a
station wagon. Little Richard is getting in.

                         DIGNAN
            Little Richard. Wait a second. Hang
            on. I didn't mean to --

Little Richard opens his door hard into Dignan's legs, then
gets out fast and takes off his shirt. Dignan tries to hit
him but doesn't connect. They grab onto each other and start
knocking around. Another GUY gets out of the station wagon.
Two more GUYS rush out the door of the burger place. Anthony
and Bob stand back, nervous.

                         ANTHONY
            Let them fight.

                         BOB
            Let them fight.

They all watch. Dignan keeps trying to punch Little Richard,
but he's hanging onto him too tight. They keep spinning
around together, moving down the sidewalk.

                         DIGNAN
                   (calling out)
            Anthony.

Anthony looks at the other guys then moves toward Dignan.

                         ANTHONY
            OK. Break it up. Break it up.

Little Richard lets go of Dignan. They separate.

                         DIGNAN
            I separated my shoulder.

Dignan is holding onto his arm. He kind of moans.

                         ANTHONY
            OK. Hang on.

Anthony grabs hold of Dignan's arm. Everybody's watching.

                         DIGNAN
            Just pull straight up.
Anthony pulls up hard on Dignan's arm. Dignan tries not to
yell, then suddenly he's OK and relieved.

                         ANTHONY
            Is it back in?

                         DIGNAN
                   (moving arm slowly)
            Yeah.

                         GUY #1
            OK, man. Let's go.

                         DIGNAN
            No. I'm not fighting anymore.

                         ANTHONY
            His shoulder went out, man. It's
            over.

                         GUY #2
            You guys better get out of here.

Guy #2 pushes Dignan. Anthony turns and pounds him in the
face. Right on the nose. The guy goes crosseyed. He falls
down with his legs all tangled-up in a strange position.

Everyone stands there stunned. Anthony takes a step back. He
looks up. He and Dignan take off. Bob stands there. Frozen.
Everyone looks at him. Bob looks at Little Richard.

                         LITTLE RICHARD
            Bob?

Bob takes off.

INT. CAR. DAY

The next day. They're driving with Bob. Dignan's up front.
He's banged-up from the fight.

                         DIGNAN
            The guy is fucking insane.

                         BOB
            I warned you, Dignan.

                         DIGNAN
            You said it like it was a big joke,
            Bob. Like he's wild.

                         BOB
            No, I was saying crazy like a
            lunatic.

                         DIGNAN
            I know that now. He's a fucking
            psycho.

                         BOB
            Well, don't blame me. I told you.

                         DIGNAN
            I do blame you, Bob. And woah. Look
            at her.

There's a beautiful GIRL on the sidewalk. They drive past her.

                         DIGNAN
            Loop around real fast.

                         ANTHONY
            Just turn right here.

Bob immediately turns and they drive past the girl again.
They don't say anything as they go past her. They all just
look at her. They drive on.

                                            CUT TO:

A minute later. They've looped back. They're looking for the
girl.

                         DIGNAN
            Where'd she go?

                         BOB
            Maybe she turned.

                         ANTHONY
            There she is.

She's on a side street. Bob hits the brakes hard. The girl
looks back at them. They back up a few feet and turn down
the street. They drive slowly toward the girl.

                         ANTHONY
            Bob, don't be so obvious.

The girl keeps looking back at them.

                         DIGNAN
            I think we might of scared her.

                         BOB
            Let's just go.

They come up, beside the girl. She looks right at them,
still walking.

Her expression is angry and also a little scared.

They drive away.

                         DIGNAN
            You blew it, Bob.

INT. COFFEE SHOP. DAY

Anthony, Dignan, and Bob are meeting with TEMPLE. Temple is
in his mid-fifties, short, heavy, completely expressionless
wide face. They listen intently as he briefs them on the
intricacies of firearms.

                         TEMPLE
            A gun is a firearm. A pistol is a
            firearm. But anything you hold in
            your hand is a weapon. A knife. A
            wrench. A ballpoint pen.

                         ANTHONY
            A ballpoiht pen?

                         TEMPLE
            Anyone who tells you a ballpoint
            pen is not a weapon needs intensive
            psychiatric treatment. You can
            stick them in the esophagus. You
            give them a ballpoint tracheotomy.

They nod seriously. Temple laughs.

EXT. FIELD. DAY

They're standing behind Temple's car in the middle of an
open pasture. The trunk is open. Temple's got some guns in
metal cases. They draw targets on pieces of paper. Anthony
draws a man running on his target. They fire a bunch of
different pistols. The last one they shoot's a .44 Magnum.
They buy it.

INT. BOB'S HOUSE. DAY

The TV room. There are two big couches and a nice giant TV.
The doors are open onto the balcony. The .44 is on the
coffee table. Dignan is sitting there with a map and some
diagrams laid out. Anthony and Bob are on either side of him.
Dignan's pointing at a notebook page with the heading
"Escape Route."

                         DIGNAN
            OK. Escape route. The most important
            thing you can have is an escape
            route. Just in case somebody's
            tailing us. Or even chasing us, as
            the case may be --

                         ANTHONY
            You think we're going to be chased?

                         DIGNAN
            That's a good question. No. I don't.
            I'm just being hypocritical here.
            However, I will say --

Bob reaches for the .44.

                         BOB
                   (quietly)
            I'm going to take a look at this.

                         DIGNAN
                   (puts hand on gun)
            Hang on This is important, Bob.
            Anthony and I are responsible for
            the internal situation. The money
            and the people. You're responsible
            for the external situation. The
            streets and the getaway.

                         BOB
                   (nods)
            That's my responsibility.

                         DIGNAN
            That's your domain.

                         BOB
            OK.

Anthony is making a little man out of a scrap of paper.

                         DIGNAN
            Now. One thing we need to discuss
            is timing. Timing is absolutely
            crucial. What are you doing? Anthony!

                         ANTHONY
                   (looks up)
            Nothing. Go ahead.

Bob picks up the gun.

                         BOB
                   (to himself)
            How many bullets can that hold?

Dignan grabs the gun away and sets it down out of Bob's reach.

                         DIGNAN
            Bob.

                         BOB
            I'm paying attention. I just want
            to look at it for a minute.

                         DIGNAN
                   (screaming)
            What's your fucking problem? You're
            a shithead!

                         BOB
            I just want to see how much bullets
            it takes.

Anthony picks up the gun off the table. He clicks the action.

                         DIGNAN
            Anthony, give me the fucking gun!

                         ANTHONY
                   (pulling away)
            No, Dignan. It's not your gun. It's
            all of ours.

                         BOB
                   (quietly)
            I paid for it.

                         DIGNAN
            God DAMMIT.

Dignan stands up, grabbing his papers.

                         DIGNAN
            You two just don't give a shit, do
            you?

Dignan starts out of the room. Anthony stands up.

                         ANTHONY
            Dignan, calm down.

                         DIGNAN
                   (turns back, screaming)
            You're out! I'm not working with
            either one of you!

                         ANTHONY
            Dignan! Stop!

Dignan stops. Looking at Anthony.

                         ANTHONY
            Calm down. Take a deep breath.

                         DIGNAN
                   (pause)
            You're right. You're right.

Dignan sits back down and starts spreading out his papers
again. Freezes. Looks at Bob. Bob's looking at the gun. Bob
looks at Dignan. Bob looks away. Nobody moves.

EXT. DECK. EVENING

Anthony and Dignan have moved outside to the hot tub.
Anthony pets Bob's dog HECTOR. Bob's brother FUTURE MAN
walks up the path from the driveway with his blonde
cheerleader GIRLFRIEND.

                         FUTURE MAN
            What are you guys doing?

                         ANTHONY
            Nothing. We're just --

                         FUTURE MAN
            You seen my brother?

                         DIGNAN
            He's inside.

Future Man goes inside. His girlfriend stands there on the
deck.

                         GIRLFRIEND
                   (smiles)
            Hi.

                         ANTHONY & DIGNAN
            Hi.

She stands there, looking across the yard. Anthony and
Dignan sit there in the hot tub, looking around. We hear
Future Man's loud voice inside:

                         FUTURE MAN
            Goddammit, Bob! Get your shit
            together.

Future Man comes back out. He stops by the hot tub.

                         FUTURE MAN
            What are you guys up to tonight?

                         ANTHONY
            Nothing much.

                         DIGNAN
            Just hanging around.

Future Man walks back out the gate.

                         GIRLFRIEND
            Bye.

She follows Future Man. Anthony and Dignan watch them walk
away. Bob comes back out with some drinks. He looks shaken.

                         DIGNAN
            What'd Future Man want?

Bob shrugs and gets in the hot tub. They sip on their drinks.
Bob's got a Heineken.

                         BOB
            He doesn't get it. Held never
            understand what we're trying to
            accomplish here. It's too dangerous
            for him.

                         DIGNAN
            Well, in reality it's not that
            dangerous, Bob. It's only dangerous
            if you don't know what you're doing.

                         BOB
            Yeah, but what if some nut pulled
            gun on you?

                         ANTHONY
            The only nut with a gun is going to
            be Dignan.

Anthony gets out of the hot tub and dives in the pool.

                         DIGNAN
                   (whispering, very serious)
            You know, Bob, Anthony did kill
            someone. He electrocuted our
            janitor senior year.

                         BOB
            He electrocuted someone?

                         DIGNAN
            It was an accidental. I don't want
            to go into the details. It was just
            one of those senior pranks that
            didn't really go right. I mean,
            obviously, since Swifty's dead.
            That's why Anthony never graduated.

                         BOB
            His name was Swifty?

                         DIGNAN
            Yeah. One of the nicest old guys
            you'd ever know.

                         BOB
            That's too bad.

                         DIGNAN
                   (nods)
            You know, when somebody gets
            electrocuted, their skin starts
            smoking. At least Swifty's did.

INT. CAR. NIGHT

Anthony, Dignan, and Bob are sitting in Bob's car, parked in
the dark. Bob's at the wheel. Anthony and Dignan are in the
back. Anthony has on a dark blue ski cap. Dignan's wearing a
baseball cap with the brim pulled down low. He puts a piece
of adhesive tape across his nose and hands the roll to
Anthony.

                         BOB
            What are you doing?

                         DIGNAN
            I'm putting a piece of tape on my
            nose.

Anthony tapes his nose. They stare out the windshield. The
alarm on Dignan's digital watch goes off.

                         DIGNAN
                   (immediately, dead serious)
            Let's get lucky.

EXT/INT. BOOKSTORE. NIGHT

Anthony and Dignan walk through the shadows in front of a
huge bookstore. The lights are on inside. They watch for a
minute and then go to the front door. Dignan hides behind a
post. Anthony knocks on the glass. An EMPLOYEE appears.

                         ANTHONY
            I left my sweater inside.

The employee shakes his head. He can't hear through the glass.

                         ANTHONY
            Do you have a lost and found?

The employee unlocks the door and opens it an inch.

                         EMPLOYEE
            We're closed.

                         ANTHONY
            I left my sweater in there.

                         EMPLOYEE
            Oh. I see. Come on in.

Anthony goes inside. Dignan comes out from behind the post.

                         EMPLOYEE
            We're closed, sir.

                         DIGNAN
            Where's that guy going?

                         EMPLOYEE
            He left his sweater.

                         DIGNAN
            Well, I left some money in there.

                         EMPLOYEE
            Where?

                         DIGNAN
                   (pulls out the gun)
            In the cash relister. Step away
            from the door.

Dignan goes in. They walk through the store.

                         ANTHONY
            Where's the manager?

                         DIGNAN
            Where's the other stocker?

                         ANTHONY
            There's another stocker, right?

                         DIGNAN
            We know there's another stocker.

                         EMPLOYEE
            Rob?

Dignan points the gun at the employee.

                         DIGNAN
            Where is he? Where is Rob?

                         EMPLOYEE
            I don't know. Maybe in literature.
            That's his section.

                         DIGNAN
            You got that?

                         ANTHONY
            Sure. Literature. The classics.

The MANAGER is locking the door of his office.

                         ANTHONY
            Is that the manager?

                         DIGNAN
                   (to manager)
            Unlock that door.
                   (to Anthony)
            Check the aisles.

Anthony starts walking through the store, checking down each
aisle. He picks up a copy of The Air War on Hitler's Germany
and takes it with him. He goes through literature and sees
ROB in travel, kneeling in front of a low shelf with a
carton of books beside him.

                         ANTHONY
            Rob?

                         ROB
                   (looks up, a little puzzled)
            Uh-huh?

                         ANTHONY
            Why aren't you in literature?

                         ROB
                   (hesitates)
            It's all full up.

Dignan is in the office with the manager and the first
employee. He's pointing at a drawer.

                         DIGNAN
            Open it up.

The manager opens it. It's full of office supplies.

                         DIGNAN
            OK. Open the other. Let's go.

The manager opens the other drawer. It's full of cash.
Dignan looks at the manager. He looks back at the cash.

                         DIGNAN
            Put it in one of those.

Dignan points at some bookstore bags. The manager picks up a
little one and starts to put the money in it.

                         DIGNAN
            A bigger one, you idiot.

                         MANAGER
                   (glares at Dignan)
            Don't call me an idiot, you punk.

                         DIGNAN
            I'm sorry. But that bag's too small.

                                            CUT TO:

Anthony waiting outside the office door. Rob, the first
employee, and the manager are sitting against the wall in
the office. The manager's got an intense, angry look on his
face, staring at Dignan. Dignan hands Anthony five little
bags full of money and starts to close the office door.

                         DIGNAN
            OK, guys. Just...Sit tight.

Dignan closes the door.

INT. CAR. NIGHT

Anthony and Dignan jump into the car.

                         DIGNAN
            Go. Go. Drive slow.

Bob drives. Pretty slow. Anthony and Dignan keep looking
back out the rear window. They're nervous. Nobody says
anything for a block or two.

                         BOB
            What happened?

                         DIGNAN
            Shhh. Slow down, Bob. Drive natural.

                         BOB
            This is natural.

                         DIGNAN
                   (looks at speedometer)
            That's good. Keep it at forty.

                         BOB
            Did we get it?

                         DIGNAN
            Be cool, Bob. Be cool.
                   (quickly)
            Make that light.

They keep driving. Breathing hard.

                         ANTHONY
            Holy shit.

                         DIGNAN
            We got it. We got it.

                         BOB
            How much is there?

                         DIGNAN
            Don't count it.

EXT. HAMBURGER PLACE. NIGHT

A picnic table in front of a hamburger place. Dignan is
standing up with his drink in his hand.

                         BOB
            Was Dignan screaming like, Get me a
            bag!

                         DIGNAN
            No. I was calm.

                         ANTHONY
            What about what that guy said?

                         DIGNAN
            Oh, shit. That was scary. In the
            middle of the robbery. The manager
            looks at me. Right in the eye. And
            goes, I'm going to remember you.

                         BOB
            Are you serious?

                         ANTHONY
            Yeah. He said that.

                         DIGNAN
            I swear to God. In a very quiet
            voice.

                         ANTHONY
            Like he meant it.

                         DIGNAN
            Yeah.

                         ANTHONY
            Like he would find Dignan. One day.

                         DIGNAN
            Like I'm going to hunt you down and
            kill you.

Dignan stands there a minute and lets this sink in. Then he
finally sits down and they all eat their burgers.

                         BOB
            You really think he'll remember you?

                         DIGNAN
                   (smiles)
            No. All he'll remember is a guy
            with a piece of tape on his nose.

They laugh smugly.

EXT. 7-11. NIGHT

Anthony, Dignan, and Bob come out of a 7-11. Bob's got a
slurpee. He's carrying the WWII book.

                         BOB
            See you.

                         ANTHONY
            See you, Bob.

                         DIGNAN
            Hang on, Bob.

Dignan goes up to Bob and hugs him. Bob's not smiling.

                         DIGNAN
            That was really good driving.
            Seriously. I mean it.

Bob nods and starts walking away, down the sidewalk.

                         DIGNAN
            We'll see you later, Bob. Good
            driving.

Anthony and Dignan sit on the curb. Anthony's drinking a
milk. Dignan's still watching Bob walk alone down the
sidewalk.

                         DIGNAN
            What's wrong with him?

                         ANTHONY
            What do you think?

                         DIGNAN
            Anthony, he sat in the car and
            watched a 4-11 in progress. He got
            what he deserved.

                         ANTHONY
            He was the driver, Dignan. He did
            what he's supposed to do.

                         DIGNAN
            I didn't realize you were so
            sensitive to Bob's feelings.
            Considering I did the plans, you're
            actually lucky you got --

                         ANTHONY
            Don't even say it, man.

INT. BOB'S HOUSE. DAY

Dignan and Anthony are following Bob through his house. Bob
is playing his electric guitar, not plugged in.

                         DIGNAN
            Bob, will you please listen?

                         BOB
            I don't want to talk about it.

Bob strums more intensely. They're walking through the
kitchen.

                         DIGNAN
            Look, I admit I was wrong for not
            telling you before the robbery that
            your share wouldn't be as equal as
            ours. But the fact remains me and
            Anthony were much more exposed to
            danger.

Bob has now come to the big glass patio doors where Hector
sits outside, looking in. Bob keeps playing as he looks at
Hector.

                         DIGNAN
            I mean, Jesus Christ, Bob. You
            didn't have some vicious lunatic
            screaming, "I'm going to remember
            you!"

                         BOB
                   (smiles slightly,
                   keeps playing)
            That's true. That would give me
            nightmares.

                         DIGNAN
            Bob, I've got nightmares.

Bob stops playing. He looks at Dignan.

                         BOB
            You'll probably have them the rest
            of your life.

                         ANTHONY
            What was that?

Anthony opens the door to the patio.

                         DIGNAN
            What?

They hear breaking glass somewhere as they follow Anthony
onto the patio. A voice yells out.

                         VOICE
            Motherfucker!

                         ANTHONY
            What's going on?

Bob sets down his guitar as they go out of the yard to see
what's happening.

EXT. BOB'S HOUSE. EVENING

Anthony, Dignan, and Bob go around to the front. Bob's
neighbor PHIL runs down the driveway with a wrench in his
hand. Phil is short and heavy, wearing a golf shirt. He's
got a bloody nose.

                         BOB
            Phil. What happened?

                         PHIL
                   (hysterical)
            Motherfucker. I'll kill him.

                         BOB
                   (looks around,
                   suddenly concerned)
            Who?

PHIL'S GIRLFRIEND comes running out the front door.

                         PHIL'S GIRLFRIEND
            I've called the police. Oh, my God,
            Phil.

She reaches to hug him.

                         PHIL
            Don't touch me! I swear to God I'll
            get that guy.

                         PHIL'S GIRLFRIEND
            I know you will, Phil. There was
            nothing you could do. All you had
            was a golf club.

                         ANTHONY
            You're bleeding, man. Sit down.

A couple of NEIGHBORS have come over from across the street.

                         NEIGHBOR
            What happened?

                         PHIL'S GIRLFRIEND
            Some black man beat Phil up.

                         PHIL
            He didn't beat me up. He attacked me.

                         PHIL'S GIRLFRIEND
            He took two hundred dollars.

                         ANTHONY
                   (to Phil)
            Tilt your head back.

Later. It's dark out now. There's a police car parked across
the street and another pulling over, lights rolling. One of
the OFFICERS walks across the yard, shining a flashlight in
the bushes. Dignan is talking with one of the other officers.

                         DIGNAN
            He was probably on drugs.

                         OFFICER
            They usually are.

Two other cops are getting a statement from Phil. Anthony
and Bob are listening. Some neighbors are milling around
talking.

                         PHIL
            As soon as I opened the door I saw
            him. A black guy. Looking through
            my dad's tool box. I wanted to trap
            this guy. So I closed the garage
            door.

                         COP
            And that's when he hit you?

                         PHIL
                   (looking up to sky
                   and concentrating)
            He struck me. I fell down. He took
            my wallet. Then he opened the
            garage door and ran away.

                         COP
            How'd the window break?

                         PHIL
            I hit it with the golf club.

Dignan's still talking to the other cop.

                         DIGNAN
            How long do you have to go?

                         COP
            26 weeks.

                         DIGNAN
            And what does that cover?

                         COP
            Social issues. Crime prevention.

                         DIGNAN
            Hand to hand combat?

Dignan suddenly looks toward Bob's backyard. The cop nods.

                         COP
            Ground defense.

                         DIGNAN
            Did you hear that?

                         OFFICER
            What?

                         DIGNAN
            Shhh.

Anthony's looking up into the treetops.

                         BOB
            What the fuck is Dignan doing with
            that cop? He loves them.

                         ANTHONY
            There's a million places to hide
            around here.

                         BOB
            Oh, yeah. They'll never catch the
            guy.

                         ANTHONY
            I hope not.

                         BOB
            Phil probably provoked him.
                   (looking at Dignan)
            Where's he going?

Dignan and the officer are walking over to the backyard.

                         DIGNAN
            No, it was a rustling sound.

                         BOB'S VOICE
            The dog. Look out for the dog.

                         OFFICER
            Is this dog going to bite?

                         DIGNAN
            No. Shit no.

Dignan jumps the fence. The cop looks over and shines his
flashlight. Dignan's petting Hector. Hector's calm.

                         DIGNAN
            See? I don't know what he's talking
            about.

Bob starts walking across the street.

                         ANTHONY
            Where you going?

                         BOB
            Move.

As Bob walks away he is looking back, past Anthony, toward
the backyard.

                         ANTHONY
            What's wrong?

Anthony turns to look.

In the backyard. Dignan is looking in the bushes.

                         DIGNAN
            He probably went into the next yard.
            Shine the light over here.

Dignan looks across the yard at the officer. The officer is
shining the light on the marijuana plants. He looks at Dignan.

                         DIGNAN
            Those are...

Dignan sprints across the yard and over the gate.

                         OFFICER
            Halt! Sir!

Anthony and Bob are standing in the shadows across the
street. They see Dignan come racing down the driveway. The
officer is yelling behind the gate.

                         OFFICER
            Bill! He's running!

The other officers are running from their cars.

                         DIGNAN
            The prowler! That way!

The officers run past Dignan, toward the back. Anthony and
Bob take off as Dignan runs by. The three of them run full
speed down the street, cutting across yards, between houses.
They throw themselves over fences and scramble through bushes.

                         DIGNAN
            Way to go, Bob!

                         BOB
            I told you they were there.

                         DIGNAN
                   (about to explode)
            So it's my fault?

                         ANTHONY
            Be quiet.

INT. BOB'S CAR. DAY

Bob's at the wheel, Dignan in front, Anthony in the back.
They're driving fast down the interstate, past fields and
farmhouses. Dignan's drawing out a route in felt tip pen on
a Texaco roadmap.

                         DIGNAN
            In all probability nothing would of
            happened. But why take the chance?
            That's why I ran. I mean how many
            plants were even back there? Five?
            Ten?

                         BOB
            There were more than that.

                         ANTHONY
            Why don't you just tell them the
            truth. Those belong to my neighbor
            Phil.

                         BOB
            I don't know. I personally don't
            need that shit in my life right now.

                         ANTHONY
            Nobody does.

                         DIGNAN
            Obviously. That's why we go on the
            road. The thing about cops is they
            have short attention spans.

EXT. GAS STATION. DAY

Dignan fills up the tank and checks the oil. Bob tests the
tire pressure. Anthony does the windows.

                         DIGNAN
            Can I get that credit card from you?

                         ANTHONY
                   (pause)
            I don't like to use that credit
            card, Dignan.

                         DIGNAN
            Why not?

                         ANTHONY
            Because my mom gets the bill.

                         DIGNAN
            She's not going to notice, Anthony.

                         ANTHONY
            I don't want to use it.

                         DIGNAN
                   (pause)
            Well, then cut it in half.

                         ANTHONY
            I keep it for emergencies.

                         DIGNAN
            Anthony, we're on the run. This is
            an emergency. It's only fair that...

Anthony gets in the car. Pause. Dignan reaches into his
pocket and takes out a wad of cash. He counts some. Stands
there a minute. Goes inside to pay.

INT. CAR. DAY

Anthony stretches out across the backseat on pillows,
playing electronic football. Dignan reads Bob's WWII book.
Bob eats a Ding-Dong and smokes a cigarette.

EXT. FIREWORKS STAND. DAY

A fireworks stand on the side of the highway. The car's
pulled over and they're buying roman candles, M-80's, and
Black Cats from a KID wearing a baseball cap way back on his
head.

As they get back on the highway Anthony lights a roman
candle and fires it from the window. Dignan lights an M-80
and throws it out of the car.

EXT. LAKE. DAY

They drive to a big lake. A dog splashes in and swims for a
tennis ball. Anthony does some nice dives. Dignan swings
from a rope out over the water and lets go. Bob sits on a
bench.

EXT. CAR. DAY

Late afternoon. They're driving on the interstate. Anthony's
got a copy of Runner's World magazine.

                         ANTHONY
            Here's mine right here. See?

Anthony lifts up his foot so Dignan can compare his shoe
with the picture.

                         DIGNAN
            See if mine are in there.

                         ANTHONY
                   (looks at Dignan's shoes)
            Dignan, those aren't running shoes.

                         DIGNAN
            Yes, they are.

                         ANTHONY
            Look at the treads on those.

                         DIGNAN
            What about them?

                         ANTHONY
            They obviously weren't designed for
            racing.

                         DIGNAN
            Well, those treads stink. You'd
            blow a knee out racing on those.

                         BOB
            Will you guys shut up? God. It's
            like having two little kids in the
            car.

                         ANTHONY
            OK, Dad.

                         DIGNAN
            Really. OK, Dad. But seriously,
            Anthony. These are fast shoes.

                         ANTHONY
            You've never had a pair of fast
            shoes in your life, Dignan.
                   (to Bob)
            In fifth grade Dignan used to wear
            cowboy boots for P.E.

                         DIGNAN
            That's real cool, Anthony. Yeah, I
            wore boots. My parents wouldn't buy
            me any $200 running shoes like
            yours. I wasn't spoiled.

                         ANTHONY
            Don't call me spoiled, Dignan.

                         DIGNAN
            You were spoiled rotten.

                         BOB
            Enough. Jesus Christ.

EXT. SIDE OF HIGHWAY. DAY

Anthony and Dignan are lined up to race on the side of the
road.

                         ANTHONY
                   (yelling)
            You want to say it, Bob?

Fifty yards away, Bob's sitting on the hood of the car
parked on the shoulder. He's reading a magazine. He shakes
his head without looking up.

                         ANTHONY
            I'll just say it.

                         DIGNAN
            I'll say it.

                         ANTHONY
            OK. Go ahead.

                         DIGNAN
            On your marks...
                   (waits a second, says
                   very fast:)
            Get set go.

They take off. Dignan has the jump, but Anthony pulls past
him. A car blows by going the other way and they keep racing.
Anthony's out in front as they pass Bob sitting on the car.
Bob's watching. Dignan raises his fists into the air.

                         DIGNAN
                   (points at Anthony)
            You owe me fifty bucks.

                         ANTHONY
            Bob?

                         BOB
            Anthony won.

Bob gets in the car.

                         DIGNAN
            Bob wasn't even looking.

EXT/INT. MOTEL. DAY

A Holiday Inn. Bandera, TX. Bob's car is parked in front.
Inside: Dignan, Bob, and Anthony are checking in. There's a
teenage GIRL behind the counter. Dignan pays cash. The girl
hands over the keys. She's looking at Dignan's shirt:

                         GIRL
            Was that shirt made from a towel?

                         DIGNAN
            What?

                         GIRL
                   (seeing his reaction)
            It's just terrycloth, isn't it?

                         DIGNAN
            Yeah. I think so.

EXT. MOTEL. DAY

They're walking along the balcony, looking for their room.
Anthony has on his backpack. Dignan's got his tennis bag.
Bob's got two large suitcases, a carry-on, and a garment bag.

                         ANTHONY
            Look, man. She didn't know anything
            about shirts.

                         DIGNAN
            No, I'm not saying her. I'm just
            saying, I don't know.

                         ANTHONY
            It's a great shirt. Don't worry
            about it.

They find the room and unlock the door.

INT. CAR. NIGHT

Driving in a small town. Bob's behind the wheel. Dignan's in
front. Anthony's in back.

                         DIGNAN
            Armored trucks are very difficult
            to steal, Anthony.

                         ANTHONY
            I know. But once you get inside
            you're home free.

                         DIGNAN
            Right.. Get back to me on that one.
            Once your plan is worth a shit.

                         ANTHONY
            It's not a plan. It's just --

                         DIGNAN
            Actually. If you knew the exact
            route, you could plant explosives
            under a manhole cover and blow it
            up as it went over.

                         ANTHONY
            Yeah, but you wouldn't have the
            truck if you blew it up.

                         DIGNAN
            True.

There's a car stopped in front of them. A couple of girls
are standing beside it, talking to the driver. Bob can't get
around.

                         DIGNAN
            What the fuck is this?

Dignan leans over and holds down the horn for about five
seconds. The guy in the car sticks hi s hand out the window
and shoots the finger at them. Dignan sounds dead serious:

                         DIGNAN
            Ram him, Bob.

Bob waits for a nervous moment. He does two quick honks. The
guy's reverse lights go on.

                         DIGNAN
            Hit him!

Bob hits the gas and slams into the car. He puts his car in
reverse and backs up a couple of feet. He leans forward and
sees the back of the guy's car. It's all smashed up. The guy
gets out of his car, shaken up, and looks at them. His
expression is confused. Bob punches it and flies backwards
down the street. The guy stands beside his car and watches
them.

                         DIGNAN
            Shit, Bob. What the fuck did you do
            that for?

                         BOB
            He wouldn't move.

They go around the corner. Bob shifts into first and goes.

                         BOB
            Is he chasing us?

                         DIGNAN
            I don't know.

                         ANTHONY
            Speed up, Bob.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. NIGHT

They're unlocking the door. They go inside.

                         BOB
            You think he got my license plates?

                         ANTHONY
            He looked too shaken-up.

                         DIGNAN
            I'm sure he did. We'll have to get
            new plates.

                         BOB
            It's registered in my mother's name.

                         DIGNAN
                   (shakes his head)
            What the fuck possessed you?

                         BOB
            You're the one who kept saying ram
            him.

Dignan's walking into the bathroom.

                         DIGNAN
            I meant tap him. As a warning.

Dignan closes the door. Anthony lies down on one of the beds.
Bob just stands there.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. MORNING

The next day. Dignan and Bob are still asleep. Bob's on a
folding bed. Anthony's sitting at the table, reading a
newspaper eating some cereal from one of those little boxes
where you cut open the sides.

EXT. MOTEL POOL. DAY

Ahthony's swimming laps. He stops and hangs onto the side
for a minute. Across the pool he can see a good-looking
Mexican MAID about twenty years old standing beside her cart
looking at him. He waves. She waves and gets back to work.

A little while later. Anthony's sitting in a chair by the
pool, letting the sun dry him off. He's wearing just a
swimsuit. Dignan and Bob are fully dressed, standing beside
him.

                         ANTHONY
            Dignan, I can't get my hair cut.
            That's just not possible, all right?

                         DIGNAN
            Then you're going to have to dye
            it, Anthony. We've got to hide our
            identities. Especially after Bob
            crashed the car.

Bob has no reaction to this.

                         ANTHONY
            No, Dignan. I'm sorry. I can't do
            that.

                         DIGNAN
            Even if it's the difference between
            some trooper recognizing us and
            throwing us in prison or not?

Silence.

                         DIGNAN
            Well, Bob, Samson has decided that
            his hair is more important than our
            safety.
                   (screaming)
            My friend, that is a reckless
            decision! Let's go, Bob.

Dignan starts walking away.

                         DIGNAN
            Bob. Are you coming?

                         BOB
            See you in a little while.

                         ANTHONY
            See you, Bob.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. DAY

Anthony's wearing a bathrobe, sitting on one of the beds.
The maid unlocks the door and looks inside. She sees Anthony
and starts to go back out.

                         ANTHONY
            No, it's OK. Come on in.

She goes in and starts cleaning up. Anthony sits down in one
of the chairs and makes conversation.

                         ANTHONY
            It's hot out, isn't it? Yeah. This
            is a nice little town. So, what, do
            you do all these rooms yourself? Or
            what? I'm Anthony.

He puts out his hand. She shakes it.

                         ANTHONY
            What's your name?

                         MAID
            Inez.

                         ANTHONY
            Inez?

She nods.

                         ANTHONY
            Let me give you a hand with that.

He helps her make the beds.

EXT. MOTEL HALLWAY. DAY

Anthony walks with Inez from room to room, helpinq her clean
up.

                         ANTHONY
            How do you say nineteen?

                         INEZ
            Dies y nueve.

                         ANTHONY
            Right. Yeah. Yo soy dies y nueve.
            How old are you?

INT. MOTEL ROOM. DAY

Inez opens the door to one of the room.. They go in to clean
it.

                         ANTHONY
            Are you ever scared of finding a
            dead body in one of these rooms?

                         INEZ
                   (laughs)
            No.

                         ANTHONY
            It could happen. This is the exact
            kind of place where it happens. But
            I don't want to scare you.

Anthony picks up a magazine off somebody's suitcase. He
flips through it. Inez takes it out of his hands and puts it
back on the suitcase.

INT. BATHROOM. DAY

Inez is putting a new bar of soap in the shower. Anthony
picks up some wet towels off the floor. It's cramped in there.

                         ANTHONY
            People think because they're in a
            hotel they can act like a slob.
            It's bad manners.

Inez takes the towels. She pulls the shower curtain shut.

                         ANTHONY
            Were you born in Mexico?

                         INEZ
            Cuba.

                         ANTHONY
            Oh, really? That's interesting. Do
            you prefer Cuba or the United States?

Inez is trying to get out of the bathroom but Anthony's in
the way.

                         INEZ
            Scuse me.

EXT. MOTEL HALLWAY. DAY

Inez is pushing the cart. Anthony has his hand on the cart.

                         ANTHONY
            These towels are still warm.

He picks one up and holds it to his face.

                         ANTHONY
            I guess from the dryer.

He hands the towel to Inez. She holds it to her face.

                         ANTHONY
            I've never met anybody from Cuba
            before.

Inez says a few sentences of very fast Spanish. Anthony nods.
Inez knocks on the door of a room.

                         INEZ
            Housekeeping.

A WOMAN about thirty-five years old opens the door.

                         WOMAN
            We're just checking out.

The woman goes back into the room. Inez follows her.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. DAY

The woman's packing a bag on the bed. Anthony comes in. The
woman looks at him. 8he's about to say something when
Anthony takes the liner out of the trashcan. The woman's
HUSBAND comes out of the bathroom. Anthony picks up some
stuff off the floor.

                         HUSBAND
            Hi.

                         ANTHONY
            Hi.

Anthony follows Inez into the bathroom. The husband looks at
his wife.

INT. BARBERSHOP. DAY

Diqnan's sitting in the waiting area of a barbershop reading
a newspaper. We can see Bob out the window, talking on a pay
phone. He hangs up and comes inside.

                         DIGNAN
            You can go first, Bob.

                         BOB
            My brother's in jail.

                         DIGNAN
            What are you talking about?

EXT. BARBERSHOP. DAY

They're standing next to the spinning striped pole.

                         BOB
            The weed.

                         DIGNAN
            But it's not his. How can they
            arrest Future Man?

                         BOB
            They said he's a drug dealer.

Bob looks off into the distance. Sickened.

                         DIGNAN
            Those assholes. We got rapes.
            Murders. Violent crimes every
            second. And this is what they come
            up with.
                   (shaking his head)
            They're just fucking him because
            he's from a prominent family.

INT. DINER. DAY

They're sitting at a table, waiting for their order.

                         DIGNAN
            I don't think they can make it
            stick, Bob. I mean, what do they
            actually have on Future Man?

                         BOB
            Well, the marijuana crop is a good
            start.

                         DIGNAN
            That could be anybody's.

                         BOB
            They also found my two beam scale
            in the garage.
                         DIGNAN
            Since when is it a crime to have a
            scale in your house? Everybody has
            a scale.

                         BOB
            The cops say it's a special kind of
            scale drug dealers use in selling
            marijuana.

                         DIGNAN
            So tell them the truth. What do you
            use it for?

                         BOB
                   (pause)
            I was just going to use it to see
            how much I had.

Dignan mulls this over for a minute.

                         DIGNAN
            How long has he been in there?

                         BOB
            I don't know.

                         DIGNAN
            Then how come they haven't set the
            bail yet? That's unconstitutional.

                         BOB
            We'll have to see when we get back.

Dignan looks at Bob for a minute.

                         DIGNAN
            What do you mean get back?

                         BOB
                   (pause)
            Well, obviously, we got to go back.

                         DIGNAN
            Bob, that makes no sense.

                         BOB
            Dignan, he's my brother. I can't
            just leave him there.

                         DIGNAN
            This could be a trap.
                         BOB
            Come on, Dignan.

                         DIGNAN
            Don't "Come on, Dignan" me.

                         BOB
            I'm going back.

                         DIGNAN
                   (louder)
            Not in that car you're not.

                         BOB
            Watch me.

                         DIGNAN
            Good luck, since I got the keys.

Bob glares at Dignan. Dignan shrugs. The waitress brings
over some glasses of water, ice clinking. Nobody says
anything while she sets them down. She walks away.

                         BOB
            Give me the keys, Dignan.

                         DIGNAN
            I can't do that, Bob.

                         BOB
            Dignan. You're going to give me
            those keys or you're going to get
            hurt.

                         DIGNAN
            Don't threaten me, Bob.

                         BOB
            Goddammit, Dignan! It's my car! If
            you don't give me my keys, I swear
            to God --

EXT. STREET. DAY

Dignan drives the car slowly alongside: Bob walking down the
sidewalk, staring straight ahead. Dignan's, got his window
down.

                         DIGNAN
            Look, Bob. I understand your
            loyalty. You're a good person. But
            right now you're not using your
            best judgement.

Bob keeps walking.

                         DIGNAN
            Future Man would not want you to go
            to jail I promise you. Just get in
            the car and we'll talk about it.

No reaction. Bob keeps walking straight ahead.

                         DIGNAN
            Future Man would never go to jail
            for you, I'll tell you that.

                         BOB
            His name's not Future Man, Dignan.

                         DIGNAN
            I know it's not.

                         BOB
            You don't even know his name.

                         DIGNAN
            Yes, I do.

                         BOB
            What is it?

                         DIGNAN
            Just get in the car, Bob.

                         BOB
            What's his name?

                         DIGNAN
            OK, Bob. I don't know his name. You
            know why? Because I don't care.
            He's Future Man. But I care about
            you. And to me it doesn't make
            sense to go back to the scene of a
            crime. Will you get in the car, Bob?
            This is stupid.

Bob stops walking.

                         BOB
            It's not your decision and he's not
            your brother, Dignan.

                         DIGNAN
            That's right. I only have one vote.
            We'll go talk with Anthony and
            figure it out.

Pause. Bob gets into the backseat. Dignan looks back at him
for a minute.

                         DIGNAN
            You're going to ride in the back?

Bob nods and looks out the window.

                         DIGNAN
            Come on, Bob. Get in front.

Bob exhales and gets out. He gets in up front. Dignan looks
at him for a minute.

                         DIGNAN
            You've got a beautiful walk, Bob.

                         BOB
            Let's go.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. NIGHT

Dignan and Bob open the door and go in. Inside: Inez and two
other Hispanic MAIDS are sitting at the table by the window.
One's about seventeen and a little heavy, the other's in her
mid-thitties. There's a bunch of glasses and a bottle of rum
on the table. One of the maids is cutting up a banana. Inez
smiles at Dignan. Dignan looks puzzled.

                         DIGNAN
            Hi. How's it going.

Suddenly there's a loud crunching, grinding sound. Dignan
and Bob are startled. They look around the room. The sound
stops.

Anthony comes out of the bathroom carrying the pitcher from
a blender. It's full to the top with yellow liquid. He sees
Dignan and Bob and stops. Pause.

                         ANTHONY
            I thought you guys went to get your
            hair cut.

                         DIGNAN
            No. We didn't.

Silence.

                         ANTHONY
            We're making banana daqueris.

Anthony holds up the pitcher. Dignan looks at it. Nods. Pause.

                         ANTHONY
            This is Inez. Carmen. Anita.

                         DIGNAN
            Hi.

                         ANTHONY
            Inez, this is --

                         DIGNAN
            Jerry.
                   (pointing to Bob)
            And this is my associate Cornelius.

A strange expression crosses Bob's face.

                         DIGNAN
            May I have a word with you, please?

                         ANTHONY
            Sure.

EXT. MOTEL HALLWAY. NIGHT

Outside the room. Dignan closes the door. There's three
housekeeping carts in the hall.

                         DIGNAN
            What the fuck is going on here?

                         ANTHONY
            What. What's the matter?

                         DIGNAN
            Anthony, we're on the run from the
            law here. Did you tell these people
            your real name?

                         ANTHONY
            No. I didn't. Dignan, they don't
            speak English.

                         DIGNAN
            They don't?

                         ANTHONY
            No. Not really. Inez speaks a little.

                         DIGNAN
            Which one was that?

                         ANTHONY
            On the left.

Dignan cracks open the door and looks inside.

                         ANTHONY
            She's from Cuba.

                         DIGNAN
            No kidding.

                         BOB
            Dignan.

                         DIGNAN
                   (closes the door)
            Anthony. Bad news.

EXT. MOTEL POOL. DAY

They walk around the motel.

                         ANTHONY
            How long are they going to hold him?

                         BOB
            I don't know. I don't know anything.
            Except Phil says they got him. And
            he's in jail.

                         DIGNAN
            He needs to hire an attorney.

                         ANTHONY
            No, no. Look. OK. Let's stay here
            until we find out what's going on.

                         BOB
            Anthony, I --

                         ANTHONY
            And if Future Man doesn't get let
            out of jail in 48 hours, then we go
            back. All right?

                         DIGNAN
            Now that makes sense. We'll hang
            out for a couple of days. Get a
            little R&R. Make sure Future Man's
            OK and then get back on the road.

                         ANTHONY
            As long as he gets out OK.

                         DIGNAN
            Obviously. That's a given.

                         ANTHONY
            Bob?

                         BOB
            What?

                         ANTHONY
            Is that OK?

Pause. Bob looks at Dignan. Looks at Anthony.

                         BOB
                   (shrugs)
            Yeah. I guess so.

They shake hands and start back to the room.

                         DIGNAN
            See, now we've got a plan.

                         ANTHONY
            Don't worry about it, Bob.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. NIGHT

Anthony, Dignan, Inez, Carmen, and Anita are sitting crowded
around the little table by the window in the motel room.
They've got banana daqueris and a bottle of wine. Moonlight
comes through the window. Bob is standing up in front of
them with a banana daqueri in his hand. He's singing a blues
number acapella. He's got a good voice.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. NIGHT

Dignan and Bob are playing slapjack with Carmen and Anita.
Everyone's got their hands ready as  Carmen turns one card
then the next. Bob's having a conversation in fluent Spanish
with them about Las Vegas. He's talking about the rules at
different casinos: Bally's, Caesar's, the Desert Inn.
Dignan's paying close attention to the deck. A jack comes up
and he slams it.

EXT. MOTEL POOL. NIGHT

There's a light in the pool. Anthony and Inez are swimming.
Anthony swims around her with his eyes just above the water.
He goes under and comes up grabbing onto her. She laughs.

                         INEZ
            Does my skin feel soft, Anthony?

                         ANTHONY
                   (passionate)
            God, yes. Like silk.
Inez starts to giggle.

                         ANTHONY
            What?
                   (starts laughing)
            What?

                         INEZ
            Like silk?

                         ANTHONY
            God. That does sound corny.  Oh,
            your skin feels so soft and silky.
            But it really kind of does.

He kisses her.

                         DIGNAN
            No lifeguard on duty. Swim at your
            own risk.

They look up. Dignan's standng at the other side of the pool.
He smiles.

                         DIGNAN
            You know, I did save Anthony from
            drowning once, Inez. Tell her,
            Anthony.

                                            CUT TO:

Dignan sitting with his feet in the pool. Anthony and Inez
are sitting on the steps beside him, in the shallow end.

                         DIGNAN
            See, one day we were playing hot
            box over at my next door neighbor
            Mr. Langston's house and Anthony
            fell in the pool and got knocked
            unconscious. I had to dive in and
            save him.

                         ANTHONY
            This was in fourth grade.

                         DIGNAN
            Mr. Langston performed
            cardiopulmonary recitation. CPR.
            I've never said this before, but
            frankly I thought Anthony was dead.
            The veins in his face were all
            sticking out. His skin was blue. He
            truly did look dead.

                         ANTHONY
            After that my parents never let me
            go to Dignan's again.

                         DIGNAN
            They blamed my family for everything.
            They always said Mr. Langston saved
            Anthony's life.

Dignan stares wistfully across the pool. Anthony looks at
him for a minute.

                         ANTHONY
            But if it wasn't for Dignan I
            probably would of died.

                         DIGNAN
                   (nodding, whisper voice)
            Yes...It's true.

They're all quiet for a minute. Inez hangs onto the side.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. NIGHT

Bob's sitting in the room by himself, close to the TV,
watching a war movie.

EXT. MOTEL. DAY

The next morning. Dignan bursts out the door of the motel
room. He runs across the parking lot.

                         DIGNAN
            Son of a bitch.

Dignan runs back into the room. He comes out with Anthony.

                         DIGNAN
            He's gone. He stole the car.

                         ANTHONY
            Where was it parked?

                         DIGNAN
            Right here.

Anthony looks around the parking lot.

                         DIGNAN
            That coward. Son of a bitch.

                         ANTHONY
            Maybe he just went to the store.

                         DIGNAN
            He took his stuff. He's gone.
                   (pause)
            I should of seen this. I should of
            expected it. Bob doesn't have any
            character.

Anthony puts his hands in his pockets. Looks out at the
highway.

                         ANTHONY
            He went back for his brother.

                         DIGNAN
            We said 48 hours.

                         ANTHONY
            That's a long time to be in jail.

They stand there in the empty parking lot. Anthony goes
inside.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. DAY

In the room. The blinds are pulled. Anthony's sitting at the
end of a bed. Dignan's pacing around the room.

                         DIGNAN
            We'll get him. Don't worry about
            that. We'll go back. We'll find him.
            And we'll blow up his car. Or do
            something. I promise you.

Anthony gets up and walks to the bathroom. He shuts the door.
Dignan follows him over to the sink and sits on the counter.

                         DIGNAN
            I mean, let's face it. Bob was dead
            weight. We're a lot better off
            without him.
                   (pause)
            But who could expect it? Just like
            that. Steals the fucking car. What
            kind of person pulls that --

Anthony opens the door and walks out.

                         ANTHONY
            Bob didn't steal the car. He told
            me he was going. He had to go help
            his brother.

Anthony sits back down on the bed. Dignan's shocked.

                         DIGNAN
            When'd he tell you?

                         ANTHONY
            This morning.

                         DIGNAN
            Where was I?

                         ANTHONY
            You were asleep.

                         DIGNAN
            He told you and you let him do it.

                         ANTHONY
            He told me because he wanted to
            know if I wanted to go.

                         DIGNAN
                   (hesitates)
            If you wanted to go? What were you
            going to do? Just leave me here by
            myself?

                         ANTHONY
            Well, I didn't do it, did I?

                         DIGNAN
            So when you were saying Bob's at
            the store and acting real suprised,
            that was just an act. You were
            just --

                         ANTHONY
            Bob went to help his brother. I
            understand that and I can't help it
            if you don't.

                         DIGNAN
            I understand that if I had a few
            more friends like you and Bob I'd
            be dead.

                         ANTHONY
            If you say so.

INT. DINER. DAY

Anthony and Dignan are sitting at a booth. Anthony's got a
roadmap spread out on the table. There's a long silence.

                         DIGNAN
            If you'd gone with Bob you'd
            probably be in Weatherford by now.
            Of course I'd be here frantically
            worrying thinking you must of got
            kidnapped.

                         ANTHONY
            I didn't realize you had such an
            incredible ability to feel sorry
            for yourself, Dignan.

                         DIGNAN
            Well, the world is a little bit
            colder today.

Anthony sits there thinking for a second, stating into space.
Then he looks back at his map. He draws some lines in two
different colors of felt tip pens.

                         ANTHONY
            You want to look at the map?

Pause. Dignan kind of looks at the map, without leaning
forward. Anthony turns the map more in Dignan's direction.
Dignan leans forward, looking.

                         ANTHONY
            See. Here's where we are.

They look at the map for a minute. Dignan looks out the
window.

                         DIGNAN
            I didn't know he had it in him.
                   (pause)
            I guess you could say the child has
            become the father of the man.

EXT/INT. MOTEL/TOWN. DAY

Anthony runs down the sidewalk, cuts across the street, and
goes around the side of the motel. He pulls off his jacket
as he goes up the stairs. He spots Inez's cart. He walks
over to the room she's cleaning. She's in there making the
bed. Anthony closes the door and grabs her by her belt.
She's laughing and he pushes her onto the bed. He unbuttons
her dress. She jerks a sheet out of the way. It swings in
the air.

Then we see Anthony and Inez walking down the sidewalk. He's
got one arm wrapped tight around her shoulders and she's got
hers around his waist. They're talking while they walk,
going past people in the town.

They watch each other walking reflected in a window.

EXT. MOTEL. EVENING

Dignan is doing the butterfly in the pool. Anthony and Inez
walk over and wait for him at the end of the pool.

                         ANTHONY
            We're going over to this bar if you
            feel like going.

                         DIGNAN
            No. I'm going to swim. I'll see you
            later.

Dignan treads water. Inez looks at Anthony.

                         ANTHONY
            Why don't you come with us.

                         DIGNAN
            OK.

Dignan gets out of the pool.

INT. MEXICAN BAR. NIGHT

Anthony, Dignan, and Inez are drinking beers with limes and
salt. The mood is good and they're getting drunk. Anthony
and Inez dance. Then Dignan and Inez. Mexican-style, stomping
their feet and clapping. There's a scruffy dog in the bar
and he barks at the dancers. Anthony kisses Inez and they
whisper to each other. Dignan orders another beer and moves
over to the pool table. A skinny Mexican MAN puts his arm
around Dignan's shoulder. He's drunk and slurring his words.
So's Dignan.

                         MAN
            Hello, my friend. You in the Army,
            yes?

                         DIGNAN
            No. I just have short hair.

                         MAN
            Is that your chiquita?

                         DIGNAN
            No, my friend knows her.

                         MAN
            She Chicano, yes?

Dignan nods.

                         MAN
            You like Chicanos?

                         DIGNAN
            Sure.

He says something in fast Spanish to the people at his table
and they smile.

                         MAN
            Play pool? For one cerveza.

Dignan nods. The guy racks up the balls. They start shooting.
Dignan makes a hard shot.

                         MAN
                   (smiling)
            You a good pool player.

                         DIGNAN
            Got a little lucky.

                         MAN
            Where's your friend? He go with the
            chiquita?

Dignan looks over to the bar. Anthony and Inez are gone.

                         DIGNAN
            I don't know.

                         MAN
            She is a good looking woman.

Dignan ignores this. They keep playing. Dignan finally makes
the eight ball. The man shakes Dignan's hand and holds on.

                         DIGNAN
            Guess I'll get another Tecate.

                         MAN
            Si. Tecate. You like to fight?

                         DIGNAN
            What?

                         MAN
            Fight. You know.

He pulls Dignan in and with his other hand fakes a hard punch.

                         DIGNAN
            No. Just pool.

                         MAN
            You Hoto?

                         DIGNAN
                   (pulls away)
            Fuck you. You a Hoto.

                         MAN
                   (smiles)
            No. Me no Hoto. Tecate?

                         DIGNAN
            Right.

INT. BATHROOM. NIGHT

The bathroom is very small with one bare light bulb. Dignan
stands at the urinal, muttering to himself.

The door opens and Dignan turns around just in time to see
the Mexican man throw a hard punch. He hits Dignan in the
stomach, punches him in the face. Dignan goes down hard. The
guy kicks him and curses in Spanish.

                         MAN
            Pinche cabrone. Puta madre.

The bartender comes in with a bat in his hand and starts
talking fast and angry in Spanish. The guy gets out.

INT. MOTEL ROOM. NIGHT

Dignan's sitting in bed, watching TV. He's got a fat lip and
a big bruise over his eye. Anthony's sitting in a chair
beside him. Inez brings over a glass of water and some ice
in a washcloth. She gives the ice to Dignan for his eye. She
puts the glass of water on the nightstand where there's some
fast food layed out for Dignan: burger, fries, an apple pie.
Inez goes into the bathroom, closes the door, and turns on
the water. Anthony's sitting there with his hands clasped,
not looking at the TV.

                         ANTHONY
            I can't believe he just jumped you.

                         DIGNAN
            Can you hand me those french fries.

Anthony hands him the fries. Dignan watches the TV.

                         ANTHONY
            I wish I'd been there.

                         DIGNAN
            Would of been nice.

Anthony looks at Dignan.

                         ANTHONY
            Man. I'm sorry. We just went for a
            walk --

                         DIGNAN
            I don't really feel like talking
            about it. The only thing I feel
            like is getting the fuck out of
            this place.

                         ANTHONY
                   (pause)
            We need a car.

For the first time Dignan looks away from the TV, at Anthony.

                         DIGNAN
            I have an idea for that.

                         ANTHONY
            What?

                         DIGNAN
            Inez has a master key to all these
            rooms, doesn't she?
                   (pause)
            Doesn't she?

                         ANTHONY
            I don't think we can do that.

                         DIGNAN
            I know we can. It's real simple. We
            go into a room, grab some car keys
            and --

                         ANTHONY
            What I'm saying is she wouldn't go
            for that.

                         DIGNAN
            She doesn't need to know.

                         ANTHONY
                   (pause)
            I don't know, Dignan. I just --
                         DIGNAN
            Look. I'm ready to get the fuck out
            of here. It's real torture for me
            to be here. Getting the shit kicked
            out of me by Mexicans.

                         ANTHONY
            Shh.

                         DIGNAN
            No one to back me up. Now I have a
            good idea. So unless you come up
            with something better --

                         ANTHONY
            Dignan. I can't do that. All right?
            I just can't.

The bathroom door opens.

                         DIGNAN
            Then you better think of something.

Inez comes back in.

                         INEZ
            How are you, Jerry?

                         DIGNAN
                   (staring at TV)
            I feel great, Inez.

                         ANTHONY
                   (kisses her)
            I'll see you later.

Inez goes outside. She closes the door.

                         ANTHONY
            I don't think we need any keys,
            Dignan. I think I can hotwire a car
            for us.

                         DIGNAN
            You don't know how to hotwire.

                         ANTHONY
            Yes, I do. Bob taught me.

                         DIGNAN
            Bob taught you how to get
            electrocuted.

                         ANTHONY
            No, I'm serious. He made me a
            diagram.

EXT. SIDEWALK. DAY

Dignan's standing on a corner alone. He looks sullen.

EXT. SIDEWALK. DAY

Anthony walks down an alley. He goes past a beat-up
convertible. He stops, hands in his pockets. He looks both
ways.

He cuts back to the car, opens the door, and slips inside.

INT. STOLEN CAR. DAY

Anthony's behind the wheel. He hand signals a turn and pulls
up next to Dignan. Dignan shakes his head as he looks at the
car. He gets in. They drive through the town. The wind's
blowing hard. Anthony smiles at Dignan. Dignan tries not to
smile.

                                            CUT TO:

Dignan sitting in the parked car with the motor running. In
the side mirror he's watching Anthony and Inez. Anthony's
saying goodbye. He walks back to the car and gets in. He
puts it in gear and they drive off.

                         DIGNAN
            What'd you say to Inez?

Anthony shrugs.

                         DIGNAN
            "I'll come back for you. I love
            you, Inez."

Anthony is silent.

                         DIGNAN
            "I'm going to take you away from
            all this windexing and making beds."

Silence. Dignan exhales and looks out the window.

EXT. HIGHWAY. DAY

The car is on the shoulder, raised up on a Jack with the
hood open. Anthony's looking underneath the car. Dignan's
standing in the middle the road with his hands in his
pockets. No cars in sight.

Anthony starts messing around under the hood. He tests some
wires and connections. He steps away from the car.

                         ANTHONY
            Man, I don't know anything about
            cars.

Dignan stares down the road.

                         DIGNAN
            You really know how to pick them.

Anthony walks over to Dignan. He stands beside him for a
minute.

                         ANTHONY
            I think we better go home.

                         DIGNAN
            Don't panic, Anthony.

                         ANTHONY
            I'm not. But there's --

                         DIGNAN
            You can't just run home every time
            things get tough. First of all,
            we've got enough dough to --

                         ANTHONY
            Our money situation is not good.

                         DIGNAN
                   (clapping him on the back)
            You're so spoiled. What is "not
            good" to you? Only a few hundred --

                         ANTHONY
            We've got sixteen dollars.

                         DIGNAN
            That's not correct.

Dignan stares at Anthony.

                         DIGNAN
            Give it to me.

Pause. Anthony reaches into his pocket and pulls out the
money. Dignan takes it. He counts it. He looks at Anthony.

                         DIGNAN
            Sixteen dollars.

                         ANTHONY
            I know.

                         DIGNAN
            Where's the rest?

Dignan stares at Anthony. Pause.

                         ANTHONY
            I had to give some to Inez.

                         DIGNAN
            How much?

                         ANTHONY
            $383.

Dignan frowns slightly. Pause. He screams:

                         DIGNAN
            What!

Pause. Dignan runs at the car and kicks the door as hard as
he can. It makes a big dent. He runs down the shoulder and
grabs a big rock. He runs at the car and smashes the rock
through the windshield. He stands still. He turns to Anthony.
He walks back over to him, yelling.

                         DIGNAN
            You gave $383 to the goddamn
            housekeeper! What the fuck is your
            problem?

                         ANTHONY
            She needed it.

                         DIGNAN
            A $500 tip! For the housekeeper!

                         ANTHONY
            Her name's Inez. Stop calling her
            the housekeeper.

                         DIGNAN
            That's what she is!

                         ANTHONY
            I know that. But --

                         DIGNAN
            You're in love with the fucking
            housekeeper!

                         ANTHONY
            Shut up!

                         DIGNAN
            What are you going to do, get
            married? Have a bunch of little
            idiot janitor brats! And go around
            scrubbing the --

Anthony slaps Dignan hard in the face.

                         ANTHONY
            Stop!
                   (pause)
            Now listen to me.

Dignan punches Anthony is the face. Follows it up with one
after another. Anthony ducks and puts his arms out. He falls
on one knee. Dignan immediately turns and walks to the car.

Anthony stands up. He's got a bloody nose. He stares at
Dignan. Not angry. Just weary.

Dignan pulls his tennis bag out of the car. He shuts the
door and walks down the highway.

Anthony walks to the car and takes out his backpack. He
pulls it tight around his shoulders. He looks down the
highway at Dignan. Then turns and walks the other way, into
the distance.

                                            BLACKOUT.

FADE IN:

EXT. GOLF COURSE. DAY

A cold day on a nice country club course. Anthony watches
Bob hit a hard slide straight into the rough. Bob stands
there in a frozen follow-through. Then he suddenly swings
his club and hums it down the fareway. He starts to walk
back to the golf cart.

                         ANTHONY
            Bob, where you going?

                         BOB
            I'm not playing any more golf.

                         ANTHONY
            Why not?

                         BOB
            Cause I'm not getting any better.
            It's a waste of time.

                         ANTHONY
            You've only been playing for two
            weeks, Bob. It takes a long time to
            learn this game.

                         BOB
            You think I'm improving?

                         ANTHONY
                   (pause)
            Yes. You just got to stick with it.

Bob looks down the fareway. He takes a deep breath and
starts walking toward his club about twenty yards away.

INT. GOLF CART. DAY

In the cart. Bob's driving. There's a brief silence.

                         BOB
            You don't have to talk about it if
            you don't want to.

                         ANTHONY
            No, I don't mind.

                         BOB
            I know it must of been a bad
            experience. But it doesn't sound
            like it was your fault.

                         ANTHONY
            Well, I didn't mean to electrocute
            him. But the whole operation was my
            idea.

MONTAGE: Electronics wizardry. Splicing wires. Buzzing
electrodes. A filament lights up blue. Pliers and clippers
rewire a circuit breaker, short out the P.A. system,
electrify doors and windows. Anthony continues in VOICEOVER.

                         ANTHONY (VO)
            It took six months of research. I
            did all the wiring myself. Switched
            AC to DC. Doubled the voltage.
            Shorted out the generator. The
            whole school was shut down.

                         BOB (VO)
            That's pretty complicated for a
            senior prank.

                         ANTHONY (VO)
            I don't like that word prank, Bob.
            I was trying to do something more
            than a prank.

EXT. SCHOOL. DAY

A large school building. Tall oak trees and benches in the
shade. Green and blue lights blink in the windows. White
flashes and loud jolts of energy dance from room to room.
Mozart plays in the distance.

Students begin to swarm out into the yard.

                         ANTHONY (VO)
            I wanted to create an event.
            Something everyone would remember.
            And at first it worked perfectly.
            The whole school was standing
            around outside. Kids running all
            over the place. Everybody laughing.

EXT. GOLF COURSE. DAY

Anthony and Bob are standing on the seventeenth green.

                         ANTHONY
            Even the school custodian Swifty
            thought it was great. He kept
            laughing and shaking his head the
            whole time he tried to disconnect
            the generator. And then suddenly
                   (snaps his finger)
            total silence except for Swifty
            hanging off the generator with his
            leg stuck to it being electrocuted.

Anthony stares down the fareway.

                         ANTHONY
            Actually he died of a heart attack
            brought on by the shock. He was an
            older guy.

INT. GOLF CART. DAY

Anthony and Bob are driving back to the clubhouse.

                         ANTHONY
            I felt terrible. I'd known Swifty
            since first grade. He was Dignan's
            medicine man for Indian Guides.
            They called each other Rattlesnake
            and Killer Whale. Whenever Dignan
            came to visit me he would act like
            he and Swifty weren't that good of
            friends, but that was just to make
            me feel better. The whole rest of
            the school had turned against me.

EXT. BOB'S HOUSE. DAY

Anthony and Bob are sitting by the pool, drinking beers.
Future Man's swimming laps even though it's cold out.

                         ANTHONY
            At first they were going to charge
            me with manslaughter. That's partly
            why I was in custody so long. Sixty
            days.

                         BOB
            Sixty days?

                         ANTHONY
            Yeah. One minute you're studying
            Great Expectations and the next
            minute you're drawing the Holy Mary
            for some kid who tried to stab his
            girlfriend.

                         BOB
            Why were you drawing the Holy Mary?

                         ANTHONY
            Prison tatoos. I got to be pretty
            good. It's not like drawing on paper.

                                            CUT TO:

Future Man toweling off. He wears a Speedo swimsuit. He
walks over to Bob and Anthony. Anthony's just finishing a
drawing of a leaping jungle cat in black and red ink on
Bob's shoulder.

Future Man stops and looks at them with no feeling.

                         ANTHONY
                   (pause)
            It's a panther.

Pause. Future Man looks at Bob.

                         FUTURE MAN
            How's that 700 bucks coming?

                         BOB
            I'm working on it.

                         FUTURE MAN
            Hard to find it sitting by the pool
            drinking beer and bullshitting.

He walks inside.

                         ANTHONY
            I thought he didn't have to pay
            anything because of the technicality.

                         BOB
            Yeah, but he still has the
            aggravation. Three days sitting in
            a cell.

                         ANTHONY
                   (pause)
            Were you adopted, Bob?

                         BOB
            Why do you say that?

                         ANTHONY
            Well, because you guys don't look
            alike.

                         BOB
            No. I wasn't adopted.

Long pause.

                         ANTHONY
            Was Future Man adopted?

                         BOB
            Jesus Christ! No.

INT. CAR. DAY

Dignan and APPLEJACK are sitting in, a '72 Monte Carlo by
the curb two houses down from Bob's. Applejack is a small
black man with white hair. It's hard to tell exactly how old
he is. Around sixty-five.

                         DIGNAN
            There's a lot of valuable shit in
            there, Applejack. The silver and
            the china. The crystal. And the
            grandfather clock. Goddammit, I bet
            that clock's worth ten grand.

                         APPLEJACK
            Why the fuck do we need to blow up
            the car? It doesn't make any
            goddamn sense.

                         DIGNAN
            Just settling an old score. You
            might say revenge.

                         APPLEJACK
            That sounds like a lot of bullshit
            that'll land us in jail.

                         DIGNAN
            We might have to take that chance.
            Cause I feel pretty strongly about
            this.

                         APPLEJACK
            Is that Buckethead?

Anthony is walking Hector down the driveway.

                         DIGNAN
            Get down.

Anthony does some stretching exercises in the driveway.

                         APPLEJACK
            Is that him?

                         DIGNAN
            Wait a second.

They watch Anthony and Hector start down the street.

                         DIGNAN
            That's Anthony.

                         APPLEJACK
            That's your friend Anthony?

                         DIGNAN
            Yeah.

                         APPLEJACK
            What's he doing here?

                         DIGNAN
            Looks like he's staying with
            Buckethead. That's what I figured.
            He's probably got his own room.
            Let's see where he's going.

Applejack puts the car in gear. They drive slowly.

                         DIGNAN
            Don't get too close.

Anthony looks back.

                         DIGNAN
            Stop. He saw us.

Anthony keeps jogging with Hector.

                         DIGNAN
            Wait. Did he see us?

                         APPLEJACK
            We're going too slow. It looks like
            we're following him.

Anthony goes around a corner, down an alley.

                         DIGNAN
            Speed up.

They pull down to the end of the alley. Anthony and Hector
are racing down the alley.

EXT. ALLEY. DAY

Dignan gets out of the car.

                         DIGNAN
            Anthony!

Anthony looks back. He stops running.

                         DIGNAN
            Wait up.

Dignan jogs down the alley. He stops a few feet away from
Anthony.

                         DIGNAN
            Where you going?

Anthony points down the alley.

                         ANTHONY
            Just walking Hector.

Dignan looks down the alley. He looks at Anthony. Pause.

                         ANTHONY
            When'd you get back?

                         DIGNAN
            Ah. Couple days ago.

Pause.

                         DIGNAN
                   (under his breath)
            You want to shake hands.

Anthony puts his hand out. They shake. Pause. Anthony looks
down the alley.

                         ANTHONY
            Who's in the car?

                         DIGNAN
            That's Applejack. You want to meet
            him?

                         ANTHONY
            Sure.

They walk to the car.

                         DIGNAN
            This is Applejack.

They shake.

                         ANTHONY
            Nice to meet you, Applejack.

                         APPLEJACK
            You're Anthony?

                         ANTHONY
            Yeah.

                         APPLEJACK
            I hear you're a good thief.

Anthony shrugs and smiles. He nods.

EXT. HAMBURGER PLACE. DAY

A hamburger place with no other customers. Anthony, Dignan,
and Applejack are sitting at an outdoor table. It's cold and
their jackets are zipped up tight.

                         APPLEJACK
            I'm just sitting at this bar
            drinking my drink when this fine
            chick walks by. She was a living
            doll. And the big motherfucker who
            came in with her sees me looking,
            when he walks by he steps on my
            foot. Doesn't say shit. Just takes
            a seat with his lady. Well, I
            holler out to him, If I was as big
            as you, ain't no way in the hell
            you'd of stepped on my foot like
            that. He just laughed. He says,
            Little man, take your foot and put
            it in your pocket. I said, No, how
            about I take my foot and I stick it
            up your ass? Man, we went to war
            right there. I hit him so hard I
            knocked his nuts in his watchpocket.
            But this motherfucker wouldn't go
            down. Then all the sudden, out of
            nowhere, Dignan came up behind him
            and smashed a bottle on his head.
            And that big old boy went down.
            That's how I met Dignan. Good cat
            to have on your side. He'll go to
            war with you. He don't give a fuck.

Applelack and Dignan slap hands.

                         DIGNAN
            Applejack would of got him anyway.
            This was just the quicker war.

                         ANTHONY
            You really hit a guy with a bottle?

Dignan takes a little notebook out of his pocket.

                         DIGNAN
            Pretty much. He kind of fell into
            me. But wait a second.

Dignan opens the notebook on the table.

                         DIGNAN
            I want you to look at this.

                         ANTHONY
            What is it?

                         DIGNAN
            It's big, Anthony. Real big. It's
            called Hinckley Cold Storage.

                         ANTHONY
            What's Hinckley Cold Storage?

EXT. HINCKLEY COLD STORAGE. DAY

Anthony, Dignan, and Applejack are standing in front of a
massive structure with ladders and towers and huge doors.
Applejack's car is parked behind them. There are trucks
lined up along the loading docks. A big sign says Hinckley
Cold Storage.

                         DIGNAN
            Mr. Henry has an inside source. We
            call him Steve. That's where we get
            our information.

                         ANTHONY
            Who's Mr. Henry?

                         DIGNAN
            You'll meet him this afternoon.
            He's helping us set it up.

                         APPLEJACK
            Did you ever hear of the S. Cooper
            Trust robbery?

                         ANTHONY
                   (shakes his head)
            Uh-uh.

                         APPLEJACK
            S. Cooper Trust,in San Francisco?

                         ANTHONY
            Uh-uh.

                         DIGNAN
            Mr. Henry pulled that job in 1965.
            It's famous. Applejack was the
            wheel man. Did you use this same
            car, Applejack?

                         APPLEJACK
            Hell, no. This is a '72. I was
            driving a '63 Pontiac.
                         ANTHONY
            What exactly is this place? Freezers?

                         DIGNAN
            Right. Freezers. Imported foods.

Anthony stares at Hitckley Cold Storage.

                         APPLEJACK
            Let's go, Abdul-Shabazz.

                         ANTHONY
            Abdul-Shabazz?

                         DIGNAN
            Just a nickname.

EXT. WAREHOUSE. DAY

Anthony, Dignan, and Applejack are standing on the sidewalk
at the front door of an old warehouse. Dignan knocks on the
door, then tries the bell. They all wait.

                         ANTHONY
            What time did he say to be here?

                         DIGNAN
            Right now.

Dignan looks in the window. He tries the door. It's locked.

                         APPLEJACK
            I can knock a man out with a six
            inch punch.

                         ANTHONY
            What do you mean?

                         APPLEJACK
            Feel this.

Anthony puts his hand up. Applejack does a short, hard jab.
Anthony shakes his hand out.

                         ANTHONY
                   (whistles)
            You could give somebody a concussion.

                         DIGNAN
            Let me feel that.

Dignan puts his hand up. Applejack nails it.

                         DIGNAN
                   (grabbing his hand)
            Ow. Shit.

A drop of water hits Dignan on the head. He looks up. More
water falls on him. He gets out of the way. Everyone looks
up. There's a man on the roof. He laughs, hysterically. They
stare up at him.

                         MAN
            How's the weather down there?

                         DIGNAN
                   (pause)
            Mr. Henry?

                         MAN
            Come on in!

                         DIGNAN
            It's locked.

                         MAN
            No, it's not.

Dignan shrugs. He goes over to the door. Mr. Henry pours
some more water on him.

A minute later: a steel garage door opens and the man steps
outside. He is tall, about sixty years old with white hair
clipped short and a trim goatee. He wears black trousers,
black shoes, no shirt, and a string of animal teeth around
his neck. This is MR. HENRY. He puts a towel around Dignan's
shoulders and pats him on the back.

                         MR. HENRY
            Dignan. Good to see you. Good to
            see you Applejack.
                   (looks at Anthony)
            Who are you?

                         DIGNAN
            This is Anthony Adams, Mr. Henry.

                         MR. HENRY
            This is no good.

Mr. Henry stares hard at Dignan. He looks to Anthony. He
looks back to Dignan.

                         MR. HENRY
            This is no good, bringing him here.
            What are you thinking? What the
            shit, man? Are you crazy?

Mr. Henry stares at Dignan. He looks to Anthony.

                         MR. HENRY
            I'm pulling your leg. Abe Henry.

They shake hands. Mr. Henry points to ROWBOAT, a tall, older
black man standing in the doorway. Rowboat wears a white
windbreaker.

                         MR. HENRY
            This is my business manager, Rowboat.

                         ANTHONY
            Nice to meet you.

                         MR. HENRY
            That's a sharp jacket.

                         ANTHONY
            Thanks.

INT. WAREHOUSE. DAY

The second floor of the warehouse is one huge room painted
all white. Mr. Henry and Anthony are playing ping-pong.
Dignan watches. Rowboat-and Applejack are on the far side of
the room playing chess.

                         ANTHONY
            It's hard to get much spin with
            this kind of paddle.

                         MR. HENRY
            It's called a racquet, Anthony, and
            you're holding it wrong. That's
            ghetto play. Hold it like this.

Anthony changes his grip. Mr. Henry serves. The ball clicks
back and forth. They're both solid players. Anthony whips a
shot crosscourt and wins the point.

                         MR. HENRY
            You know, your form is for shit,
            but you've got a hell of a talent.

                         ANTHONY
            Thanks.

Mr. Henry serves. Anthony returns. Mr. Henry suddenly fires
a scorching shot down the line. Anthony watches it click
past him. He looks to Mr. Henry.

                         ANTHONY
            Nice shot.

Mr. Henry smiles. He looks to Dignan.

                         MR. HENRY
            Is he in?

                         DIGNAN
            I don't know. Are you in, Anthony?

Anthony stands there silent. He looks to Applejack and
Rowboat. He looks to Mr. Henry. Then Dignan.

                         ANTHONY
            Yeah, I'm in.

Mr. Henry puts down his paddle. Stares at Anthony. Smiles.

                         MR. HENRY
            OK, kid. Let's go talk about cops
            and robbers.

INT. WAREHOUSE. DAY

The ground floor is crammed with cars. Some have been taken
apart. Some are shiny and perfect. Anthony and Dignan walk
among the cars and junk with Mr. Henry. They've each got
coffee in a styrofoam cup.

                         MR. HENRY
            Every once in a while some cat
            comes to me. He wants to know how I
            made it. How did I become a success?
            The first thing I tell them is:
            follow your instincts. Let your
            instincts guide you. The second
            thing I tell them is, for Christ's
            sake: you got to know your grammar.

                         ANTHONY
            Grammar.

                         DIGNAN
            What do you mean grammar?

                         MR. HENRY
            The basic grammatical rules of
            robbing.

                         ANTHONY
            You mean like techniques?

                         MR. HENRY
                   (nods)
            Technique. That's right. Seventy-
            five percent of your job is crowd
            control. Seventy-five percent. Do
            you believe that?

                         DIGNAN
                   (pause)
            Yes, I do.

EXT. ROOFTOP. DAY

On the roof of the warehouse. They're standing near the
edge, looking out. Mr. Henry is smoking a joint. He's got on
a black beret. Anthony and Dignan are listening to him talk.

                         MR. HENRY
            On the other hand you got to have
            the right equipment. I don't care
            if you're Harry Houdini. You can't
            pick a lock without a hairpin.

Dignan nods.

                         ANTHONY
            I'd like to live in that place.
            Hinckley Cold Storage.

                         MR. HENRY
            Yeah. Convert it into lofts. OK.
            Pop quiz. What's the single most
            important aspect of your job?

                         DIGNAN
            The grammar?

                         MR. HENRY
            Crowd control. Crowd control. Wake
            up, guys.

                         DIGNAN
            Oh, yeah.

                         MR. HENRY
            You're going to need a boxman for
            this one. But that can be arranged.

                         ANTHONY
            You mean a safecracker?

                         MR. HENRY
            Yeah. And I'll tell you who we're
            going to want: Kumar Banijamali.

                         DIGNAN
            Is he good?

                         MR. HENRY
            He's damn good.

INT. KUMAR'S ROOM. DAY

KUMAR is about sixty-five with white hair. He's short and
wears a pale-green button-down shirt, dark trousers, and
sandals. His room is small and has everything he needs in it.
Books. Little TV. Possessions from all over the world.

Kumar sits on his bed. Anthony and Dignan sit in wooden
chairs. Kumar stares out the window. They sit for a long
silence.

                         DIGNAN
            So what do you think of the plan,
            Mr. Kumar?

Kumar shrugs. Pause.

                         DIGNAN
            We'd love to have you on the team.

Kumar nods. He looks at a plant growing by the window.
Silence.

                         ANTHONY
            What is that? An orchid?

Kumar shakes his head. Sighs deeply. Long pause.

Kumar suddenly stands up and unbuttons his shirt. He throws
it on the bed. He undoes his trousers and takes them off.
Anthony looks at Dignan. Kumar takes off his socks, then his
shorts. He is naked. He walks over to his dresser and takes
out a small satchell. He looks around the room. Right at
Anthony. He walks quickly toward him. Anthony gets nervous.
Kumar grabs Anthony's shoulder and lifts him up a little. He
pulls a towel out from underneath Anthony. He puts his hand
on Dignan's shoulder as he walks to the door, into the hall.

                         KUMAR
            Good plan.

He goes out. Anthony and Dignan sit there for a minute.
They're a little disoriented.

                         DIGNAN
            What do you think?

                         ANTHONY
                   (nods)
            He seems pretty good.

INT. BOB'S HOUSE. NIGHT

The foyer of Bob's house. The doorbell is ringing. Bob walks
in wearing a velour robe. He opens the front door. Anthony
and Dignan are standing on the dootstep. Dignan and Bob
shake hands. It's a little awkward.

                         BOB
            Hey, Dignan. How's it going?

                         DIGNAN
            Not bad.

                         BOB
            Come on in. What you been up to?

                         DIGNAN
            Not a whole lot, Bob.

They walk through the house.

                         BOB
            It's too bad about what happened on
            the road.

                         DIGNAN
            Yeah. It is.

                         ANTHONY
            Let's not even talk about it.

                         BOB
            It was stupid.

                         DIGNAN
            Right. It was extremely stupid.

                         BOB
            I don't expect an apology and I
            don't even want one. I just want us
            to --

                         DIGNAN
            I can't fucking believe this guy.
            An apology, Bob?

                         BOB
            Man, I don't want to go into this.

                         ANTHONY
            Yeah. Let's keep it --

                         BOB
            Cause you would of let my brother
            rot in jail.

                         DIGNAN
            You said 48 hours!

                         BOB
            I never agreed to that.

                         DIGNAN
            Bob, you're lying!

                         BOB
            Bullshit.

                         DIGNAN
            All right! Backyard! Right now!

Dignan walks straight to the back door and goes out. He
stands on the deck.

                         DIGNAN
            Let's go, Bob!

Anthony gets up and tries to calm Dignan down.

                         ANTHONY
            Dignan. Take it easy.

                         DIGNAN
            Bob!

Bob is slowly moving toward the back door.

                         BOB
            No, Dignan. This is stupid.

Bob is standing just inside the back door.

                         ANTHONY
            Yeah. Dignan. Look. Let's just --

Dignan grabs Bob's shirt and pulls him out the door.

                         ANTHONY
            Stop, Dignan!

Anthony breaks them up. He stands in front of Bob, shielding
him.

                         ANTHONY
            He doesn't want to fight.

                         DIGNAN
            Get out of the way.

                         ANTHONY
            No, Diqnan. This isn't --

Dignan gets around Anthony and lands a glancing punch.

                         DIGNAN
            Come on!

                         BOB
            I don't want to fight you, Dignan.

                         ANTHONY
            Dignan, we're friends. Take it easy.

Dignan lands another punch. He grabs Bob's shirt and pulls
him around. Then he starts landing punches. One. Two. Then
Bob nails Dignan in the shoulder. They grab onto each other
and start fighting hard. They're about the same strength.
After a couple of seconds Anthony tries to break it up.

                         ANTHONY
            Dignan. Dignan.

All the sudden Dignan stops fighting.

                         DIGNAN
            All right. Stop.

Dignan puts his arms around Bob.

                         DIGNAN
            No fighting.

Dignan turns to Anthony. There's tears in his eyes.

                         DIGNAN
            No fighting. It wasn't Bob's fault.

                         ANTHONY
            Easy, Dignan. It's OK.

They all catch their breath for a minute. Dignan hugs Bob
again.

                         DIGNAN
            It wasn't your fault, Bob. You had
            your brother.
                         BOB
            I didn't have any choice.

They stand there another minute.

                         DIGNAN
            I'm sorry, Bob.

                         BOB
            That's OK.

                         ANTHONY
                   (starting to laugh)
            Shit, Dignan.

                         DIGNAN
                   (smiles)
            What the fuck are we doing out here?

                         ANTHONY
            I don't know, Dignan. You went crazy.

                         DIGNAN
            I'm sorry, Bob.

                         BOB
            That's OK.

                         DIGNAN
            Look. We want you on the job.

EXT. COUNTRY CLUB. DAY

The restaurant at Bob's country club, People are dressed for
golf and tennis. The waiters wear white jackets. and black
bow ties. The whole crew sits at a big table by the front
window.

                         MR. HENRY
            Let me get this straight. You don't
            play golf and you don't play tennis.
            So why do you belong to a country
            club?

                         BOB
            You got me.

                         MR. HENRY
                   (shakes his head)
            You're a piece of work, Bob.

A black waiter about thirty-five, JACKSON, stops by the table.

                         JACKSON
            How you doing, Bob?

                         BOB
            Hey, Jackson. How's it going?

Jackson refills their water glasses.

                         JACKSON
            You keeping out of trouble?

                         BOB
            I'm trying.

                         JACKSON
                   (looks at others at table)
            This boy's a troublemaker. He used
            to tear this place apart.

Mr. Henry laughs. Bob smiles sheepishly. Jackson stands
there for a minute looking around the room.

                         JACKSON
            Your brother was up here the other
            day. He said you ran away from home.

                         BOB
            He said what?

                         JACKSON
            He said you ran away from home.

                         BOB
            No. I didn't run away. I went out
            of town.

Jackson nods.

                         DIGNAN
            Bob.

Bob looks at Dignan. Dignan's looking across the room.
There's Future Man and his friend CLAY fresh from a round of
golf. They're standing on the other side of the room,
looking across at Bob. They're smiling. Jackson picks up two
empty plates and walks away. Future Man and CLAY walk to
Bob's table.

                         FUTURE MAN
            Fancy seeing you here, Bob.

                         BOB
            Yeah. Hey, Clay.

                         CLAY
            Hi, Bob.

                         FUTURE MAN
                   (smiling)
            So what's shaking?

                         BOB
            Nothing much.

Future Man looks at Anthony and Dignan. His smiles fades.

                         FUTURE MAN
            How's it going.

                         ANTHONY
            Fine, thanks.

Future Man looks at the rest of the crew. His smile comes
back. Mr. Henry smiles.

                         FUTURE MAN
            John Mapplethorpe.
                   (shaking hands with
                   crew across table)
            How are you. Hi.

                         MR. HENRY
            Good to know you, John.

                         BOB
            Jackson says you told him I ran
            away from home.

Clay laughs. Future Man smiles.

                         FUTURE MAN
            I might have mentioned it.

                         BOB
            John, I'm twenty-six years old I
            didn't run away from home.

                         FUTURE MAN
            I know, Bob. You were on a secret
            mission.

                         BOB
            I'd appreciate it if you didn't go
            around telling people lies about me.

                         FUTURE MAN
            Right. I'm sorry.
                   (looks at Clay)
            You've got a reputation to think
            about.

Clay smiles. Bob shakes his head. Mr. Henry stands up.
Everyone looks at him. He's got a cold but calm expression.

                         MR. HENRY
            The world needs dreamers, son.

                         FUTURE MAN
            What?

                         MR. HENRY
            The world needs dreamers. To
            relieve the pain of consciousness.

Future Man nods. Pause. Mr. Henry doesn't sit down.

                         FUTURE MAN
            Well, we'll see you later, Bob.

                         MR. HENRY
            Pleasure to meet you, John.

                         FUTURE MAN
                   (hesitantly)
            Nice to meet you.

Future Man and Clay walk away. Mr. Henry sits down.

                         MR. HENRY
            I hope this doesn't offend you, Bob.
                   (looks closely at Bob)
            Your brother is a cocksucker.

Bob smiles. They all smile.

                         BOB
            No. That doesn't offend me.

EXT. HINCKLEY COLD STORAGE. DAY

Dignan's hidden in some bushes, watching the Hinckley Cold
Storage building with binoculars. Anthony's crouched beside
him taking notes in a notebook.

                         DIGNAN
            OK. Man in blue jeans just left by
            southwest door. He is entering a
            white van. What time is it?

                         ANTHONY
            Eleven fifteen.

                         DIGNAN
            OK. Mark that down.

                         ANTHONY
            I did.

Dignan keeps watching through the binoculars. He suddenly
looks back at Anthony.

                         DIGNAN
            God. Isn't this great? Working on
            the job. Got a wheel man. Got a
            safecracker. Good friends with Mr.
            Henry.

                         ANTHONY
            Yeah. It's pretty good.

                         DIGNAN
            It's like we've finally arrived.

Anthony nods. He's writing something.

                         DIGNAN
            What are you writing?

Anthony shows him a little flip cartoon of a guy pole
vaulting.

INT/EXT. PLANNING SEQUENCE. DAY

We see the team assembled around a table. They're drinking
coffee and looking at pictures, charts, maps, diagrams,
tools. Dignan passes out some walkie talkies.

They test out some smoke cannisters on the roof. Dignan
throws one down. They all run for cover.

Applejack and Dignan drive fast through a slalom course in a
deserted parking lot.

We see Kumar working on a safe. He wears a stethoscope and
listens to the tumblers. He turns the dial. Dignan is timing
him with a stopwatch.

Kumar opens the safe. He looks at Dignan. Dignan nods with a
serious expression on his face.

EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS. DAY

Anthony and Mr. Henry are jogging along railroad tracks in
the warehouse district. Anthony wears a blue T-shirt and
shorts. Mr. Henry looks like a boxer in grey sweats with the
hood up and a crisp white towel wrapped around his neck and
tucked into his sweat top. He's wearing black Chuck Taylors.
They've both got smooth running styles, though every twenty
yards or so Mr. Henry rolls his shoulders and gives a quick
flurry of punches. An older woman rides a bicycle across the
tracks. She's not pretty, but she's got a strong face.
Pioneer stock.

                         MR. HENRY
            Look at that woman. She's what?
            Fifty? Fifty-five? But she hasn't
            let herself go. I appreciate an
            older woman who has a commitment to
            her body.

                         ANTHONY
            So do I.

They watch her ride down the street.

                         MR. HENRY
            Tell me something. What the hell
            kind of name is Dignan?

                         ANTHONY
            I'm not really sure. I think it's
            Irish. Or maybe --

                         MR. HENRY
            I guess what I'm trying to say is
            what the hell kind of person is
            this Dignan?

                         ANTHONY
            What do you mean what kind of
            person? He's a good person.

                         MR. HENRY
            Sure, sure. He's a great person,
            and I'd call bullshit on anybody
            who said differently. But I wonder
            if the kid has the goods
                   (taps his temple)
            up here.
                         ANTHONY
                   (long pause)
            I don't think you're giving him
            enough credit. I know sometimes he
            doesn't think an idea through. He
            gets too excited. But --

                         MR. HENRY
            As far as I can tell he hasn't
            thought his life through. He'd be
            fine cutting my grass or parking my
            car. But business?
                   (looks at Anthony)
            You I can work with. You I could
            groom. Dignan's not going to make it.

Anthony stops running. Mr. Henry stops ahead of him and
looks back, jogging in place. Pause.

                         ANTHONY
            You're wrong about Dignan.

Mr. Henry stops jogging in place.

                         ANTHONY
            And you're wrong if you think, I'd
            turn my back on a friend.

                         MR. HENRY
            Hold it.

Mr. Henry walks to Anthony and puts his hand on his shoulder.
Anthony knocks it off.

                         MR. HENRY
            Anthony. I want.to say one thing to
            you.

Mr. Henry looks Anthony right in the eye.

                         MR. HENRY
            Congratulations. You passed the test.

                         ANTHONY
            What do you mean?

                         MR. HENRY
            The Abe Henry double-cross test.
            You just made a perfect score.

Anthony has to recover.

                         ANTHONY
            That was a test?

                         MR. HENRY
            Take a deep breath.

Anthony takes a deep breath. Mr. Henry massages Anthony's
shoulders. He takes Anthony's head in his arms and does a
quick pull to one side: cracks his neck. Then the other side.

                         MR. HENRY
            How does that feel?

                         ANTHONY
            It feels good.

Anthony rubs his hands on his neck and moves his head around.

                         ANTHONY
            Did Dignan take the test?

                         MR. HENRY
                   (pause)
            Yes, he did.

                         ANTHONY
            How'd he do?

They start jogging again.

                         MR. HENRY
            Well, he agreed 100% that Bob
            should be dropped. And he also
            agreed you were a liability. But he
            felt his talent would make up for
            your weaknesses.

                         ANTHONY
            That sounds like Dignan.

They veer away from the tracks, picking up the pace, and
head into a field toward Mr. Henry's warehouse.

EXT. ROOFTOP. NIGHT

They're having a party at Mr. Henry's warehouse. There are
tables and a BBQ on the roof, with white Christmas lights
strung up and music playing. Anthony, Dignan, Bob, Kumar,
and Mr. Henry are there. Plus a couple of young GIRLS,
eighteen or nineteen years old. Mr. Henry's got a name tag
that says, Hi, my name is Mr. Henry. Everyone's mingling on
the rooftop. Rowboat is at the grill. Applejack comes up the
stairs with a grocery bag under his arm.

                         MR. HENRY
            Woah. There he is. Applejack! What
            it is.

Mr. Henry and Applejack shake hands.

                         APPLEJACK
            Is my car OK out there?

                         MR. HENRY
            I love it. He always wants to know
            if the car's OK. Get a hot dog.

                         APPLEJACK
            I don't eat pork.

                         MR. HENRY
            Super K. Kumar. Come here.

Mr. Henry goes over to Kumar and throws his arm around him.

                         APPLEJACK
            I don't know why the fuck we're
            having a party. The damn job's not
            over yet.

                         DIGNAN
            Well, this isn't really a party per
            se.

                         APPLEJACK
            You don't celebrate til it's over.

                         DIGNAN
            True.

Dignan's solemn for a minute. He takes a bite of a hot dog.

                         APPLEJACK
            What the fuck are you doing?

Dignan hesitates. He takes the hot dog away from his mouth.
He's embarassed. Applejack shakes his head, disgusted. He
walks away.

                         ROWBOAT
            What was that all about?

                         DIGNAN
            Ramedan.

Anthony and Mr. Henry are standing together in a doorway. Mr.
Henry's got a martini.

                         MR. HENRY
            I'll tell you, Anthony. Times like
            this I get philosophical. What does
            it mean? What's it all about? Are
            you afraid to die?

                         ANTHONY
            Me?

                         MR. HENRY
            No, that door over there.

                         ANTHONY
            I don't want to die.

                         MR. HENRY
            Are you afraid?

                         ANTHONY
            Yeah. I mean, I don't think about
            it all the time. But once in awhile
            I kind of go, Woah. Man.

                         MR. HENRY
            Exactly. Woah.

                         ANTHONY
            Death.

                         MR. HENRY
            The fear of death, The pain of
            consciousness.
                   (taking a sip)
            Did you mix this martini?

                         ANTHONY
            No. Bob did.

                         MR. HENRY
            Bob. Bob. That's a palindrome.
                   (laughs uproariously)
            I love palindromes.

                         ANTHONY
            Are you afraid to die, Mr. Henry?

                         MR. HENRY
                   (looks right at him)
            Anthony, I'm petrified.

Bob is talking to the other girl.

                         BOB
            Is that sugarless gum you're chewing?

                         GIRL 2
            I'm not chewing gum.

                         BOB
            Would you like a piece?

                         GIRL 2
                   (smiles brightly)
            Sure. Thanks.

Kumar and Applejack are sitting at a table.

                         KUMAR
            If someone could copy my life story.
            If I had someone, man, to just
            write what I talk. I have so many
            stories. Bestseller, man.

                         APPLEJACK
            I've been all over the Goddamn
            country. I've seen things.

                         KUMAR
            I used to go to Vegas and do
            headstands.

                         APPLEJACK
            No kidding.

                         KUMAR
            Easy.

Kumar does a handstand.

INT. WAREHOUSE. NIGHT

Anthony, Dignan, and Bob are sitting at the table in Mr.
Henry's office. Dignan's got plans and diagrams spread out.
There's music playing in the next room and we can hear
people talking outside the door.

                         DIGNAN
            Come on, Bob.

                         BOB
            I know it, man. Hang on.

                         DIGNAN
            Jesus Christ.

                         ANTHONY
            Give him a second.
                         BOB
            Hopscotch. The code name is
            hopscotch.

                         DIGNAN
            Good.

Mr. Henry looks in the door. He's got a glass of wine in one
hand and a bottle and empty glasses in the other.

                         MR. HENRY
            Join the party, fellas.

                         DIGNAN
            We're just going over a few things.

Mr. Henry looks at the plans on the table. He sets down the
three glasses and pours some wine.

                         MR. HENRY
            I'll tell you something, Dignan. It
            is possible to overplan. You don't
            want to turn the crew into robots.
            Right?

Dignan nods seriously.

                         MR. HENRY
            You got to have fun with it.
            There's no point if you're not
            having any fun. Would you like me
            to be there tomorrow?

                         DIGNAN
            Yes.

                         MR. HENRY
                   (immediately)
            Why?

                         DIGNAN
            Well, I think --

                         MR. HENRY
            No, if I go out on this job, then
            it's just another score by Mr.
            Henry. And I don't see it like that.
            This is your job. Your creation. I
            want you to try this.

They all try the wine. Mr. Henry watches their reactions.

                         ANTHONY
            This is good.

                         MR. HENRY
            I want to ask a favor, boys. One
            day, when I'm long gone and all but
            forgotten, make one last toast to
            Abe Henry. And remember me as a
            friend.

They drink.

EXT. ROOFTOP. NIGHT

Back on the roof. Bob and Dignan are sitting at a table with
one of the girls. Applejack is dancing with another. Kumar's
talking to Reudi. Anthony and Mr. Henry are standing at the
edge of the roof, looking out at the city. Mr. Henry's
smoking a joint.

                         MR. HENRY
            Well, that's just it, Anthony. A
            lot of criminals have problems.
            Some of them are alcoholics. Some
            have drug problems. Others dome
            from broken homes. I see a real
            need for healing.

Mr. Henry passes the joint to Anthony. Anthony smokes it.

                         MR. HENRY
            But you're thieves. It's what you
            are.

                         ANTHONY
            Yeah.

                         MR. HENRY
            It's an esoteric journey.

Anthony passes the joint back to Mr. Henry.

                         MR. HENRY
            We're renegades from despair.

                         ANTHONY
                   (nods)
            Can I ask you something, Mr. Henry?

                         MR. HENRY
            Absolutely.

                         ANTHONY
            Why'd you want to help us?

                         MR. HENRY
                   (inhales, pause,
                   holding in smoke)
            Because I was like you once. And
            there was no one there to help me.

Mr. Henry exhales the smoke. He hands the joint to Anthony.
Anthony takes a hit. They stare out at the darkness.

INT. BOB'S HOUSE. NIGHT

Anthony and Dignan are sitting in the kitchen. Anthony's got
on a t-shirt and boxers. Dignan's wearing a bathrobe. All
the lights in the house are out except one in the kitchen.
Anthony's drinking a glass of milk. Dignan's got orange juice.

                         DIGNAN
            Next week we'll be drinking piña
            coladas.

                         ANTHONY
                   (nods)
            Hopefully this trip'll go a little
            smoother than the last one.

Dignan nods.

                         ANTHONY
            Or I might end up with a broken nose.

                         DIGNAN
            Did that hurt?

Anthony shrugs. There's a long silence.

                         DIGNAN
            This'll be a good trip.

Anthony nods. Pause. He smiles slightly.

                         ANTHONY
            I'll try not to hold you back
            tomorrow.

                         DIGNAN
            I don't think you will.

                         ANTHONY
            I don't want to be too much of a
            liability.

                         DIGNAN
            Look, you're going to do fine. It's
            OK to be scared.

                         ANTHONY
                   (laughs slightly,
                   shaking his head)
            I don't think I ever said this to
            you. But it meant a lot to me the
            way you were after that Swifty
            stuff happened.

Silence. Dignan's a little embarassed.

                         ANTHONY
            He was a nice guy.

                         DIGNAN
                   (shrugs)
            He was all right.

They both sit there for a minute. Quiet. Anthony sips his
milk.

                         ANTHONY
            Do you like Inez?

                         DIGNAN
            As a person?

                         ANTHONY
            Yeah. As a girl.

                         DIGNAN
            Yes. I do.

                         ANTHONY
            So do I.

Bob comes into the kitchen in his bathrobe looking haggard
yet wired. Anthony and Dignan look at him. He goes to the
refrigerator. He takes out a chocolate cake and a carton of
milk. He pours himself a glass of milk. He goes over to the
table with the cake and sits down. He cuts himself a piece
of cake. He swallows two pills, one at a time, each with a
long drink of milk. The pills are big capsules and he
struggles a little when he swallows.

                         ANTHONY
            You OK, Bob?

                         BOB
                   (snaps)
            No, I'm having a heart attack. Of
            course, I'm OK. What's that supposed
            to mean?

                         ANTHONY
                   (pause)
            Nothing. I was just asking.

                         DIGNAN
            Jesus, Bob.

Bob senses that's he's over-reacted. He backtracks.

                         BOB
            No, I know. I'm just saying. I feel
            fine. You want a piece of cake?

                         ANTHONY
                   (pause)
            Sure.

Bob starts to cut him a piece.

                         DIGNAN
            I'll take one of those, too, please.

EXT. HINCKLEY COLD STORAGE. DAY

Anthony is positioned behind some bushes, across from the
building. He's wearing a black parka. He looks through some
binoculars. Re pulls out his walkie talkie.

                         ANTHONY
            Bird Dog to Scarecrow. Bird Dog to
            Scarecrow.

                         DIGNAN (VO)
            Go ahead, Bird Dog.

                         ANTHONY
            You're all clear.

                         DIGNAN (VO)
            Roger.

                         ANTHONY
                   (pause)
            We all set?

                         DIGNAN (VO)
            Hang on a second.

Anthony waits a second.

We see Dignanr Applejack, and Kumar getting out of the car.

                         DIGNAN
                   (into walkie talkie)
            OK. Let's do it.

Dignan starts to move out. He remembers something. Says back
into his walkie talkie:

                         DIGNAN
            Let's get lucky, Bird Dog.

Dignan, Applejack, and Kumar start across the parking lot.
Dignan's got on a business suit. Applejack has on sunglasses.
Kumar is carrying a leather satchel.

They go in the side door and down a narrow passageway. They
get into the freight elevator and go up. Bob's voice comes
through on Dignan's walkie talkie.

                         BOB (VO)
            Scarecrow?

                         DIGNAN
            Yeah?

We see Bob: standing on the loading dock behind the building.
He's wearing an extremely heavy wool jumpsuit with a hood.

                         BOB
            Everything OK?

                         DIGNAN (VO)
            Yeah. We're in the elevator. How's
            it look back there?

                         BOB
            It looks pretty good. There's
            nobody back here.

                         DIGNAN
            Stand by. Bird Dog?

We see Anthony: still in the bushes.

                         ANTHONY
            Uh-huh?

                         DIGNAN (VO)
            Take your second position.

                         ANTHONY
            OK. Roger.

Anthony gets up and starts out across the parking lot, hands
in his pockets, not too quickly.

Dignan, Kumar, and Applejack get off the elevator.

                         DIGNAN
            OK. Six minutes.

Applejack goes one way down the hall. Dignan and Kumar go
the other. They turn the corner. They go down a wide
passageway.

                         KUMAR
            Where did he go?

                         DIGNAN
            Who? Applejack?

                         KUMAR
            Why did he go that way?
                   (points back down hall)


                         DIGNAN
            He's going to watch the back
            stairwell, remember?
                   (pause)
            Don't worry about it.

Dignan and Kumar come up to a door. Dignan slides a crowbar
out of his jacket. He snaps open the door. They go in. It's
a small office with a desk and a little safe in the corner.
Dignan clears everything off the desk with one quick sweep
of the arm. He puts down the briefcase and opens it up. It's
full of tools. Kumar unzips his satchel and takes out a roll
of tape. He immediately sets to work on the safe. Dignan
steps back out the door and closes it.

                         DIGNAN
                   (into walkie talkie)
            Bird dog? You in position?

We see Anthony on top of a fire escape, about four stories up.

                         ANTHONY
            I'm in position, Scarecrow.

                         DIGNAN (VO)
            Any activity?

                         ANTHONY
            Not at all. The place is totally
            deserted.

                         DIGNAN (VO)
            Good. It's supposed to be.

                         ANTHONY
            I've got a great view up here. I
            can see all the --

                         DIGNAN (VO)
            Stand by, Bird Dog.

We see Dignan standing in the hall, outside the office.

                         DIGNAN
            Jacknife. Come in, Jacknife.
                   (pause)
            Hello? Bob? Are you there?

We hear the sound of an elevator moving.

                         DIGNAN
                   (beat)
            Bob? What the fuck is going on?
            Anthony? Who's in the elevator?

We see Anthony on the fire escape.

                         ANTHONY
            I don't know.

                         DIGNAN (VO)
            Check the fucking elevator. It's
            moving.

Anthony goes in a little door. Down a passageway. Through a
freezer. Into a corridor. Past the freight elevator, which
is open on this floor. Then around a corner to a smaller
elevator as it opens: Bob's inside.

                         ANTHONY
            What are you doing?

                         BOB
            My walkie talkie's busted. 1 can't
            tell what's going on.

                         ANTHONY
            Let me see it.
                   (fiddling with it)
            Did you drop it?

                         BOB
            No.

Dignan's still standing in the hall as Anthony and Bob come
around the corner. Dignan yells at them down the hall.

                         DIGNAN
            What's happening? What's going on?

                         ANTHONY
            It was Bob. His walkie talkie's
            busted.

                         BOB
            I couldn't hear anything.

                         DIGNAN
            Who's watching the door? What the
            fuck are you doing? Get back in
            position.

The elevator starts whirring again.

                         DIGNAN
            Who did that? What the fuck is that?

                         ANTHONY
            It's going back down.

                         DIGNAN
                   (pannicking, into
                   walkie talkie)
            Applejack! What's happening?

                         APPLEJACK (VO)
            What?

                         DIGNAN
            Bob! Get back in position!

For just a second we hear the sound of music playing.
Everyone freezes. FOUR GUYS, two of them in jumpsuits like
Bob's, step out into the corridor. They've got bags from
Jack in the Box. They're drinking drinks and shakes. One of
them is holding a jam box. They stop. Dignan pulls out his
gun.

                         DIGNAN
            Don't move! Get up against the wall!

Anthony and Bob pull out their guns and hold them on the
four guys.

                         DIGNAN
                   (into walkie talkie)
            They're back! Get down here!
                   (not into walkie talkie)
            What are you doing here?

                         GUY IN JUMPSUIT
            We work here.

                         DIGNAN
            Time!

                         ANTHONY
                   (checks watch)
            Two minutes.

Simultaneously: Kumar opens the door. Applejack comes
running down the hall with his gun out.

                         APPLEJACK
            Where'd they come from?

                         ANTHONY
            The front stairs.

                         APPLEJACK
                   (to Bob)
            Where were you?

                         BOB
            My walkie talkie broke.

Applejack reaches in his pocket and pulls out a dark blue
nylon stocking. He pulls it over his head. Dignan, Anthony,
and Bob immediately do the same. Anthony's is red.

Dignan steps into the office with Kumar.

                         DIGNAN
            What's the story?

                         KUMAR
            Can't get it. It won't...
                   (make s gesture)


                         DIGNAN
            What can we do?

Kumar looks at his tools. Moves them around on the desk.

                         DIGNAN
            OK. Fuck it.

He goes back into the hall.

                         DIGNAN
            Let's go. Fuck it.

TWO GUYS with a cart stop at the end of the corridor.

                         ANTHONY
            Freeze!

                         DIGNAN
            Nobody move!

                         ANTHONY
            Get against the wall!

Bob's gun goes off. Everybody looks at him. Dead silence.
Bob looks around like it must have been somebody else's gun
that went off.

                         ANTHONY
            Jesus, Bob.

                         BOB
            I didn't do anything.

Applejack falls to his knees. He drops his gun.

                         ANTHONY
            Applejack? Are you OK?

Applejack clutches his arm and rolls onto his side.

                         DIGNAN
                   (shouting)
            What's wrong with Applejack?

                         BOB
            He's having a heart attack or
            something.

                         DIGNAN
                   (screaming)
            Let's go!

Dignan throws down his smoke cannister. Bob and Anthony
automatically throw down theirs. Smoke instantly fills the
hall.

The hostages stand completely clear of the smoke. They watch
Anthony, Dignan, and Bob rush around blindly in the haze.

                         DIGNAN
            Help me move him.

                         ANTHONY
            Careful. Check his pulse.

Anthony holds all the guys at gunpoint. Dignan and Bob carry
Applejack down the hall, into the elevator.
                         DIGNAN
            Is he breathing?

                         BOB
            I think so.

An alarm starts ringing.

                         DIGNAN
            Jesus Christ.  What the fuck is that?

                         BOB
            I didn't think there was an alarm.

                         DIGNAN
            Take him to the car, Bob.

Dignan runs back down the hall to Anthony.

                         DIGNAN
            Who tripped the alarm?

                         ANTHONY
            It's the fire alarm.  Somebody
            pulled the fire alarm.

                         DIGNAN
            Where's Kumar?

                         ANTHONY
                   (looking around)
            I don't know.

                         DIGNAN
            Jesus Christ, Anthony.  Did you
            lose him?

                         GUY ON FLOOR
            He's in the freezer.

                         DIGNAN
            What?

                         GUY ON FLOOR
            He went in there.

                         ANTHONY
            What for?

The guy on the floor kind of shrugs.  Anthony crosses the
hall. He pulls open one of the big freezer doors. Kumar is
standing there with his bag and the briefcase.  You can see
his breath in the air.

                         ANTHONY
            What are you doing?

                         DIGNAN
            Let's go. Come on.

They go down the hall to the freight elevator.  They start
down.

                         ANTHONY
            What were you doing in there?

Kumar shakes his head and shrugs his shoulders.

EXT. HINCKLEY COLD STORAGE. DAY

They go out the front door, across the parking lot. Kumar's
lagging behind.

                         ANTHONY
            Wait for Kumar.

                         DIGNAN
            Come on, Kumar.

They come up to the car. Anthony tries the door. It's locked.
Bob comes running around the side of the building.

                         BOB
            The elevator broke.

                         DIGNAN
            Where's Applejack?

                         BOB
            He's stuck between two floors.

                         ANTHONY
            You're kidding.

                         DIGNAN
            Applejack's stuck in the elevator?

                         BOB
            Yeah.

                         ANTHONY
            Who's got the car keys?

Everyone looks at everyone else.

                         BOB
            Applejack drove.

                         DIGNAN
                   (pause)
            Run. Run. Let's go.

Bob takes off at a sprint. Kumar follows him.

                         ANTHONY
            Jesus, Dignan.

Anthony pulls off the red stocking and throws it down. He
tries the other doors on the car.

                         ANTHONY
            What the fuck happened to the the
            plan?

Dignan pulls off his stocking. Anthony starts walking fast
across the parking lot. Dignan stands still by the car.
Staring straight ahead.

                         ANTHONY
            Come on.

                         DIGNAN
            I'll see you there.

                         ANTHONY
            What?

                         DIGNAN
            I'll see you there.

                         ANTHONY
            What are you talking about?

                         DIGNAN
            I'll get him.

                         ANTHONY
            There's not enough time.

                         DIGNAN
            Yes, there is. Let's get organized.

Dignan starts toward the building. Anthony moves after him.

                         ANTHONY
            Dignan, it's too late.

                         DIGNAN
            I don't think so.

Dignan and Anthony look at each other for an instant. Dignan
turns and sprints back into the building.

Anthony stands alone in the parking lot.

                                            CUT TO:

a bedroom with big French windows. No furniture.

                                            CUT TO:

a wood-panelled study. Stripped bare.

                                            CUT TO:

an elegant dining room. Cleaned out.

EXT. BOB'S HOUSE. DAY

A GUY in a moving company uniform carries a Louis XIV chair
out the front door of Bob's house, down the path to the
street. Two other MOVERS pass him on the way. They've got a
dolly.

The guy carries the chair into a huge moving van. It's full
of furniture and paintings.

Mr. Henry and Rowboat are standing in the street. Rowboat's
smoking a cigarette, writing on clipboard. Hector stands
behind them in the grass. Mr. Henry takes out two cigars. He
holds one out to Rowboat. Rowboat shakes his head. Mr. Henry
shrugs and lights one for himself.

                         MR. HENRY
            You know, Rowboat. People who smoke
            cigarettes die. People who smoke
            cigars just keep on going.

Rowboat nods, smoking. Mr. Henry looks at Hector. He points.

                         MR. HENRY
            Sit.

Hector sits. Mr. Henry smiles a broad smile. The movers go
buy with a beautiful Moroccan divan.

EXT. HINCKLEY COLD STORAGE. DAY

Dignan comes out the front door pulling Applejack, semi-
conscious, to the car. Dignan loans Applejack against the
door. He checks Applejack's pockets for the keys. He looks
around on the ground.

He hears sirens in the distance. He looks across the parking
lot. Two squad cars screech in off the street.

Dignan takes off into the building.

INT. HINCKLEY COLD STORAGE. DAY

Dignan sprints down the corridor. Races up the stairs. Runs
down hall after hall.

Two COPS appear out of the elevator.

                         COP
            Freeze!

Dignan ducks into a stairwell. He runs down the stairs and
into another corridor. He can hear cops yelling from two
different directions. He crosses a catwalk. Cuts through an
office. Pulls open a door and goes into one of the freezer
rooms.

Cops come yelling down the hallway. Dignan runs through the
freezer room and tries the other door. It's stuck. Three
COPS come inside. Dignan instantly puts his hands up in the
air.

                         COP #1
            Drop the fucking gun!

                         COP #2
            Don't move!

Dignan drops the gun. The cops rush him. They nail him into
the wall. Get him in a headlock, pulling hard.

                         COP #3
            You're caught, buddy.

They pull him into the hallway.

                         COP #1
            Put your hands behind your back.

                         DIGNAN
            I'm not going to do anything.

                         COP #3
                   (squeezing his neck)
            Why'd you try to run, buddy? Don't
            you know what freeze means? Don't
            you speak fucking English?

                         COP #1
            Take it easy.

They put him face down on the floor and cuff him.

                         COP #1
                   (to Dignan)
            Calm down.

They move him down the corridor. Dignan's nose is bleeding.
He looks terrified.

Applejack is sitting propped up against the wall. He's got
an oxygen mask on his face and a team of paramedics and cops
around him. Somebody's taking his blood pressure. Another
one's giving him an IV.

                                            CUT TO:

Anthony running down a sidewalk. He drops his gun in a
trashcan without slowing down. He crosses a bridge and runs
into the the trees.

                                            BLACKOUT.

FADE IN:

EXT. COUNTY JAIL. DAY

There's snow in the air. The prison yard is wide with dry
grass and concrete. It's split up by chain link fences.
Guards sit in the towers.

Dignan's wearing an inmate jumpsuit. Anthony and Bob walk
with him across the yard. They've brought along two bags of
food from a hamburger place.

                         DIGNAN
            I said to the DA, That cop who hit
            me must of given me CRS disease.

                         BOB
            What's that?

                         DIGNAN
            That's just what the DA asked. CRS
            is a disease where you can't
            remember shit.

Dignan smiles.

                         ANTHONY
            Like amnesia.

                         DIGNAN
            Can't remember shit. CRS.

                         BOB
            Oh.

Anthony kind of smiles.

                         DIGNAN
            Tell Mr. Henry I said that.

Anthony nods. Silence. They walk past a bunch of guys
lifting weights on the other side of a fence.

                         DIGNAN
            So is Mr. Henry going to come by
            and see me or anything?

                         ANTHONY
                   (pause)
            I don't think so. I mean. Actually,
            he robbed Bob's house.

                         DIGNAN
            He did?

                         ANTHONY
            Yeah.

                         DIGNAN
            You got to be kidding me.

                         ANTHONY
            I'm not kidding.

                         DIGNAN
                   (pause)
            What'd he get?

                         ANTHONY
            Pretty much everything.

                         DIGNAN
            The grandfather clock?

                         BOB
            He got everything.

Dignan nods. Pause.

                         DIGNAN
            Wow.
                   (pause, looks at Bob)
            Sorry, Bob.

Bob shrugs, looking at the ground. Dignan looks to Anthony.

                         DIGNAN
            You think Applejack knew?

                         ANTHONY
                   (shrugs)
            We haven't heard from Applejack
            since he got out of the hospital.
            His case got dismissed.

Dignan's stunned to hear this.

                         DIGNAN
            Why?

                         ANTHONY
            We're not sure.

                         BOB
            We think Mr. Henry maybe --

                         ANTHONY
            His health isn't very good, you
            know. They take that into account.

Pause. Dignan nods.

                         DIGNAN
            No. That's true.

Long silence.

                         ANTHONY
            Mr. Henry never gave you a test,
            did he?

                         DIGNAN
            What do you mean?

                         ANTHONY
            Nothing.

                                            CUT TO:

a picnic table in the prison yard. There's frost on the
ground. They're eating lunch.

                         DIGNAN
            You're living on a sailboat?

                         ANTHONY
                   (nods)
            It belongs to Bob's uncle.

                         DIGNAN
            How big is it?
                         ANTHONY
            Oh, I'd say about --

                         BOB
            It's in the driveway.

                         ANTHONY
                   (pause)
            Temporarily.

                         DIGNAN
            Where?

                         ANTHONY
            Behind Bob's house.

Long pause.

                         DIGNAN
            Does it float?

                         ANTHONY
            We're not sure yet. It's going to
            need some repairs.

Dignan nods.

                         ANTHONY
            So how is it in there?
                   (pointing at cell block)


                         DIGNAN
                   (shrugs)
            What can I say? It's jail. You
            don't sleep when you want to. You
            don't eat when you want to.

                         BOB
            Do you have your own room?

                         DIGNAN
            We don't have rooms, Bob. We have
            cells.

                         BOB
            Do you have your own cell?

                         DIGNAN
            No. I have a cellmate. His name's
            Carl.

                         ANTHONY
            What's he in for?

                         DIGNAN
            He stole a tractor.

                         BOB
            Do they let you --

                         DIGNAN
            I don't really want to talk about
            it, Bob.

Long pause.

Anthony takes a sip from a milkshake. Dignan unwraps the
foil from a cheeseburger. He takes a bite.

                         DIGNAN
                   (with his mouth full
                   of food)
            This sure beats the shit out of the
            shit they crap out in this joint.

Anthony and Bob laugh. Dignan takes another huge bite.

                         DIGNAN
                   (smiling)
            I might have to have another one of
            these.

                                            CUT TO:

Dignan in handcuffs behind a chain link fence. He's standing
in line with some other inmates.

                         DIGNAN
            Thanks for coming.

Anthony nods. They stand there in silence. The line moves
forward a few steps. Anthony and Bob walk with Dignan on the
other side of the fence. The line stops. Pause.

Dignan leans toward the fence.

                         DIGNAN
            Hey.

He motions for them to come closer to the fence. He whispers:

                         DIGNAN
            I think I may have found a way out
            of here.

                         ANTHONY
                   (pause)
            You're kidding.

                         DIGNAN
            No. I'm not.

                         ANTHONY
            How?

                         DIGNAN
            Shhh. Wait for my instructions.

                         ANTHONY
            Dignan, I --

The line starts moving. Anthony and Bob walk with Dignan on
the other side of the fence.

                         DIGNAN
            When we go through the next gate
            you'll have 30 seconds to take out
            the tower guard.

                         ANTHONY
            What?

                         DIGNAN
            Have the car running at the north-
            west checkpoint. Bob and I'll --

                         ANTHONY
            Dignan, I --

The line starts moving faster.

                         DIGNAN
            Scale the barricade and tunnel
            through no man's land. And Bob.
            Remember:

                         ANTHONY
            Scale the --

                         DIGNAN
            Shield me from the bullets. They
            won't shoot civilians. Ready?

                         BOB
            Hold on --

                         DIGNAN
            Here we go.

                         BOB
            Wait a second --

                         DIGNAN
            Now!

Anthony and Bob look all around in a panic. They look to
Dignan.

Dignan shuffles along with the rest of the inmates. He looks
at Anthony and Bob. He smiles. He shrugs.

                         DIGNAN
            So long.

Bob and Anthony slowly half-smile. They wave to Dignan as
the line of inmates turns away. Anthony looks to Bob. Bob
smiles.

The line of inmates stops about fifty feet away. Dignan
looks back. Anthony looks at him. Dignan's expression has
changed. He wasn't expecting them to see it. His eyes look
cold. Anthony puts his hand on the fence. Dignan turns and
the line of inmates disappears into the cell block.

Anthony stands there in silence.. He lets go of the fence.

He walks with Bob down the long path in the cold air.

                                            FADE OUT.
