


                         CHERRY FALLS
                   SCREENPLAY BY KEN SELDEN
                         FIRST DRAFT





FEBRUARY 14, 1998

FADE IN:

EXT.  TOWN - NIGHT

The hanging sign says 'Entering Cherry Falls, Ohio'

We see Cherry Falls - A small town in rural Northeastern Ohio. This is 
Norman Rockwell land, red barns on dirt roads, a square in the center of 
town. But things are hidden here. The barns are locked, the shades are 
drawn.

Dissolve to:

EXT.  LOVER'S LANE 

A romantic turn-off used exclusively for parking. A river gushes by. 
Crickets chirp. The trees blow in the autumn wind. A single car sits on 
the lonely road. The muffled sound of a young couple making out drifts 
through the streamed up windows.

INT.  CAR

A teenage boy's hand is under a teenage girl's shirt, gently massaging her 
breast. He pulls his hand out from under her shirt and places it on her 
bare knee.

As he starts to slide his hand up her leg, she grabs his hand and gently 
pulls it away. She places it back on her breast, sliding it under her 
shirt.

We pull back. STACY and ROD, two healthy sixteen year olds, are 
passionately making out in the proverbial back seat of a big American car.

Rod smiles seductively, kisses Stacy, and places his hand back on her 
knee. Once again, she stops him, this time just squeezing his hand 
tightly.

                   STACY
               No.

He doesn't give up easy. He playfully wrestles his hand free and slides it 
under her skirt. She grabs his hand again.

                   STACY
               I said no.

                   ROD
               But you don't really
               mean it.

He struggles to free his hand.

                   STACY
               Yes I do. Keep it in your
               pants Rod.

He gives up, aggravated.

                   ROD
               Maybe it won't stay in.
               
                   STACY
               Maybe you better just
               drive me home.

He starts the car, glares at her for a second, then turns it off.

                   ROD
               Let me just ask you a serious
               question first.

                   STACY
               What?

                   ROD
               Aren't you worried you
               could die a virgin?

                   STACY
                 (sarcastically)
                Yeah. I'm extremely worried
               about that. It's right up
               there with global warming.

                   ROD
               On our way home, a drunken
               driver could hit us head on
               and send us flying through
               the windshield. Terminate
               us instantly. We'd never 
               experience what it means to
               make love.

                  STACY
               If sheep don't count.

                  ROD
               That wasn't me ...

                  STACY
               I know. I'm kidding you.
               Chill out.

                  ROD
               Well I'm trying to be real
               here and you're mocking me.

                  STACY
               (softening)
              I'm sorry, but you're not
              going to die a virgin Rod.

EXT.  LOVER'S LANE

There is another car around the bend, hidden from sight. It's an old beat 
up Imperial from the late sixties. Someone is watching them. It's probably 
a psychopath.

INT.  ROD'S CAR

Rod leans in and starts kissing Stacy again.

                   ROD(cont.)
               I don't wanna take that chance.
               I want my first time to be with you.

She kisses him back. He slides his hand under her skirt again.

                   STACY
               Stop it.

He doesn't.
                   STACY
               Rod!

                   ROD
                (exasperated)
               You're being unfair.

                   STACY
               Unfair?!

                   ROD
               Yes. Unfair to me.

He begins to overpower her. This is quickly turning into date rape. SHE 
STARTS TO FIGHT BACK BUT HE DOESN'T STOP. FINALLY, SHE SCRATCHES him 
savagely across the face. This catches his attention. He jumps back, cut 
slightly, surprised.

She opens the car door and quickly escapes.

EXT.  ROAD

She runs away from the car, down the road, very upset.

INT.  CAR

Rod catches himself. He looks at his bloodied face in the rear view mirror 
and realizes what he's done.

He starts up the car.

EXT.  ROAD

Stacy runs down the road alone, still very upset.

INT.  CAR

Rod pulls up next to her and rolls down his window.

                  ROD
              Stacy! I'm sorry.

EXT.  ROAD

She pays no attention to him.

                  ROD
              Please get back in the car, Stacy.

She turns and heads down a path into the dark woods, purposely going where 
he can't follow.

INT.  CAR

Rod, frustrated, hits the steering wheel and floors it.

EXT.  ROAD

As Rod's car tears off, down the road, the other car that was parked at 
lover's lane drives up and pulls over, lights still off.

EXT. WOODS

Stacy heads deeper into the woods. When she finally stops to catch her 
breath and wipe away her tears, she hears someone approaching her. 
Suddenly, the footsteps stop. Stacy senses that someone is watching her.

                  STACY
                Rod?

No answer.

                 STACY
               Is that you Rod?

Still no answer. A little frightened, she starts to walk again.  Again she 
hears the footsteps following her. She stops again. Whoever is out there 
stops too. She looks around in every direction.

                 STACY
               Come out Rod.
               This SCREAM bull shit ain't
               gonna work with me!

No answer. Even the birds have stopped chirping.

                 STACY
                (terrified)
              Rod? You're freaking me
              out. Game's over. I lose.
              Come out and we'll fuck.

She hears the footsteps behind her and quickly turns around. She sees the 
silhouette of someone standing a few feet away.

The wind picks up. Stacy realizes it isn't Rod. All she can see is that 
whoever is there is carrying a small sledge hammer in one hand and a very 
long, jagged, steel nail in the other.

                  STACY
               (in full panic)
              NO!

Stacy starts to run. The killer starts after her.

EXT.  STACY'S

Rod is sitting in his car in front of Stacy's house at the edge of the 
woods, waiting for her to appear. He checks his watch.

EXT.  WOODS

Stacy runs for the edge of the woods but she isn't quite fast enough to 
elude her pursuer.

                  STACY
              Help!

The killer catches Stacy from behind and savagely smashes her head against 
a tree, cracking a branch. Stacy falls to the ground, dazed.

INT.  CAR

Rod sits up in his seat, thinking he's heard something

EXT.  WOODS

Stacy, half conscious, bleeding from the head, is dragged back deeper into 
the woods.

EXT.  STACY'S

Rod gets out of the car and cautiously moves to the edge of the dark 
woods.

EXT.  WOODS

Rod's POV - The woods are pitch black.

                   ROD
              Stacy?

                  STACY(O.C.)
            (struggling, in the distance)
            ROD!

EXT.  WOODS

The killer kicks Stacy in the side, instantly shutting her up. He gags her 
and ties her to a tree trunk. She struggles, but she's no match for the 
killer.

INT.  CAR

Rod grabs his flashlight from the glove compartment.

EXT.  WOODS

Rod's flashlight beam frantically cuts through the woods.

Rod charges through the woods, desperately looking for any sign of Stacy.

EXT.  WOODS

Stacy's right hand is raised above her head and placed, palm out, against 
a tree trunk.

EXT.  WOODS

Rod searches for Stacy, his flashlight jaggedly cutting the darkness.

EXT.  WOODS

The huge nail, extremely sharp and jagged, is placed in the center of 
Stacy's outstretched palm.

The hammer is pulled back, aimed at the head of the nail.

EXT. WOODS

Rod stops and frantically looks around, knowing he's fighting a losing 
battle.

                  ROD
             Stacy?!

EXT.  WOODS

The hammer descends on the nail.

Stacy screams out in pain, even through the gag, as he hand is nailed to 
the tree.

EXT.  WOODS

Rod hears her muffled cry and runs toward the sound.

Stacy's left hand is now placed up against a different tree.

Another nail is readied.

Stacy tries to free her nailed hand but it's useless. She goes into shock.

Rod's flashlight continues to cut through the night. His feet trample 
fallen branches. Suddenly, he stops. He's found her.

Stacy is stretched out between two trees, gagged, one hand nailed to each 
tree. She almost looks crucified.

Rod, starts toward her, not sure what to do. He looks into Stacy's 
terrified eyes. She's looking behind him.

Rod quickly turns around but he's too late.

A knife comes plunging down toward Rod's chest.

Stacy frantically tries to free herself but she only succeeds in ripping 
her palms on the nails.

Rod falls to his knees, blood streaming from his chest and mouth.

Stacy can't even react anymore, she's so horrified.

The killer's hand rips open Stacy's shirt and feels her soft ripe stomach.

Stacy looks down, terrified of what the killer has planned.

A small but extremely sharp razor attached to the end of a pencil is 
placed up against Stacy's bare stomach. The killer's hand grips it like 
it's an ordinary pencil.

Stacy's eyes grow abnormally wide as the carving starts. She's never 
experienced such pain.

Blood drips to the ground.

Dissolve to:

EXT.  NIGHT SKY

The full moon looks down on the town.

EXT.  CUL DE SAC

Another romantic turn off. A view from the top of a hill overlooking the 
sleepy town. A lonely car sits there, the sound of a teenage couple making 
out drifting through it's steamed up windows. It's almost a repeat of the 
first scene.

INT.  CAR

The boy pulls his hand from under the girl's shirt and unsnaps her jeans. 
She pushes his hand away but he puts it right back, wriggling a finger 
down into her pants.

JODY MARKEN, a pretty all-American sixteen year old girl, strong willed 
but still innocent, stops kissing her boyfriend KENNY, trying to hold him 
off. Kenny is also sixteen. He's thin and a bit shaggy, but very cute 
nonetheless. His hair is shoulder length, his stare intense. He takes 
himself seriously, all rebel.

                  JODY
              Cut it out.

                  KENNY
              Why?

                  JODY
              I was supposed to be home
              fifteen minutes ago.

                  KENNY
              So? You're already late.
              A few more minutes won't
              matter.

He slides a second finger into her pants. She closes her legs, making his 
probing much more difficult.

                  JODY
              I got to get home.

                  KENNY
              Fuck your curfew. Most
              sixth graders can stay out
              later than you.

He starts kissing her again.

                  JODY
              Kenny....

She pulls his hand out of her pants. He stares at her for a second, 
completely exasperated. He sits up and starts the car.

EXT.   CUL DE SAC

The car squeals away.

INT.   CAR

Jody and Kenny drive home, not talking.

He pulls up in front of her house.

                  KENNY          
            You know, maybe we ought to
            start seeing other people.

                  JODY
            What?

                  KENNY
            Jody, we've been going out
            for over a year. I love you
            but I'm all out of patience.

Jody doesn't know what to say. She didn't expect this.

EXT.  MARKEN HOUSE

Jody gets out of the car, very upset. Kenny takes off, not even waiting to 
see if she gets inside safely, leaving her all alone on the dark street. A 
car backfires in the distance. A nearby noise  startles her. Something's 
behind the garbage cans. She heads quickly up the driveway, disappearing 
behind the house.

INT.  MARKEN'S HOUSE - BACK FOYER

All is quiet in the house. The back door opens. Jody tiptoes up back 
staircase.

INT.  MARKEN'S HOUSE

Jody appears on the second floor. It's a family house, politely decorated 
and immaculately clean. She quietly creeps down the hallway toward her 
room. As she passes her parents' room, she looks down. She's relieved that 
no light is coming from under their door.

INT.  JODY'S BEDROOM 

Jody creeps into her bedroom and quietly shuts the door. She's made it. 
She sits on the bed to catch her breath.

Something moves in the corner of her room. Jody jumps, scared.
Someone is sitting in her rocking chair.

                 BRENT
            It's almost ten o'clock.

                 JODY
            Daddy you scared me!

                 BRENT
            You're grounded Friday night!

                 JODY
            What? I WAS AT SANDY'S I JUST
            LOST TRACK OF TIME.

BRENT MARKEN gets up and heads to the door. He's a big man, 45 years old, 
well built. He's dressed in a  tree-shirt and jeans.

                 BRENT
            Your curfew is 9:30 and you
            know it, little miss.

                 JODY
            It won't happen again.

                 BRENT
            You said that two weeks ago.

                 JODY
           Dad ! Most of my friends can
           stay out until 11 on school nights
           and 1 on weekends!

                 BRENT
           They're not all the sheriff's daughter.
           Goodnight.

He leaves. Jody is furious. She lies down on the bed to stew. She might at 
well have stayed out. The phone in the hallway rings. She leaps up.

INT.  HALLWAY

Jody runs up to the phone but waits for it to ring a second time before 
picking it up. She crosses her fingers, praying it's Kenny.

                 JODY
            Hello. (beat) One second.
                (to her dad)
            Hey Adolph, it's the station!

Brent comes out and picks up the phone as Jody heads back to her room, 
disappointed.

INT.  BEDROOM

Jody flops on the bed.

                 BRENT(O.C.)
            Hello. (beat) What?

INT.  HALLWAY

Brent it shocked.

                 BRENT
            Where?

MARGE MARKEN, Jody's mother, comes out of the bedroom, sensing something 
terrible has happened. Marge is a couple of years older than Brent. She's 
a bit lifeless, a pretty woman who's whole life is her daughter and a 
bottle of Peachtree Schnapps.

                 BRENT(CONT'D)
            I'm on my way.

INT.  JODY'S

Jody sits up on her bed, also sensing something big has happened.

INT.  HALLWAY

Brent buttons up his shirt.

                  MARGE
            What happened?

                  BRENT
            Two kids were found mutilated
            in the woods. Lock the door
            after me.

Brent grabs his gun belt and heads down the stairs.

Jody appears. She and her mom share a concerned glance.

CUT TO:

EXT. STACY'S HOUSE

Brent pulls up. A lot of official cars are already there.

EXT. WOODS

A trail of flares eerily light up the woods, leading to the crime scene.

EXT.  WOODS

The murder sit. Police cameras flash. Stacy is still nailed to the tree. 
Rod is dead on the ground below her in a puddle of his own blood.

Brent walks up, immediately repulsed by the gruesome sight. His deputy, 
JACK WEBBER, sidles up next to him.

                  DEPUTY
           Her parents reported her missing about
           an hour ago.

A flash bulb momentarily lights up the scene. Brent pulls out his 
flashlight to better survey the carnage.

He starts on Rod, throat slit, chest gutted. He then moves to Stacy, 
looking at one nailed hand, then the other.

                  BRENT
           What kind of a person wakes
           up in the morning and says
           to themselves, 'Think I'll nail
           a sixteen year old girl to a tree today'?

                  DEPUTY
           The same type that decides to carve into
           her stomach.

Brent finally shines the flashlight beam on Stacy's stomach. Carved into 
her flesh is the word 'VIRGIN'.

CUT TO:

MONTAGE

High school kids are getting ready for school.

Body parts are being covered. Pants and stocking are pulled up over bare 
teenage legs.

Shirts and bras cover bare teenage chests.

Zippers are pulled tight. Buttons are buttoned.

The school bell rings and the kids arrive in cars, on bikes, walking.

IT'S A TYPICAL small town American high school, somewhat repressed but 
alive. The news spreads quickly about the double killing as the crowd 
splits into its various tribes: punk rockers, jocks, potheads, 
cheerleaders, nerds.

The killing is on everyone's mind.

EXT.  SCHOOLYARD

Jody rides up on her bike and glances across the schoolyard as she locks 
it in the bike rack.

Jody's POV - Kenny is leaning against a tree, talking with a busty girl, 
SHARON.

Jody is upset to see Kenny flirting with someone else. As she starts 
toward the front door of the school, a few other CLASSMATES run up to her. 
She keeps glancing over at Kenny but he doesn't notice her.

                  CLASSMATE 1
                Jody!

                  JODY
                Hi.

                  CLASSMATE 2
                 Was Stacy raped?

                  JODY
                I dunno. My dad never came home
                last night.

Jody's POV - Kenny takes Sharon's hand for a second.

                  CLASSMATE 1(O.C.)
                I bet she was. I heard someone
               stuffed a tent spike up her ass.

                  CLASSMATE 2(O.C.)
                Gives new meaning to the idea
                 of getting 'nailed'.

                  CLASSMATE 1(O.C.)
                Ha-ha. So funny. Sickfuck.

Jody doesn't respond. She stares at Kenny.

Jody's POV - Kenny walks into school with Sharon.

CUT TO:

INT.  HOMEROOM

Jody enters her homeroom, still upset.

Her teacher LEONARD MARLISTON is lecturing the class. Leonard is twenty-
five and quite hip looking for a teacher. He has long somewhat stringy 
brown hair. He is a bit thin and is dressed casually, almost in hippy 
attire. He wears wire-rim glasses and lace-up boots.

                    MR. MARLISTON
             No one understands what leads people
             to do irrational things. We only
             know that unpunished violence
             festers, then explodes.

Jody sits down in the back.

                      MARLISTON(CONT'D)
             Witness the L.A. Riots. Years of
             police brutality in forty-eight hours. Jody?

                      JODY
             Yes Mr. Marliston?

                     MR. MARLISTON
             Your dad's in the principal's office.
             He wants to see you.

INT.  HIGH SCHOOL PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE

Brent is talking to TOM SISLER, the principal. Tom is a wiry, hard 
featured man in his mid-forties. They have known each other for a long 
time but are not really friends. Brent knows Tom too well. Tom's a cynical 
bastard.

Tom is examining the photos taken at the crime scene.

                     TOM
              You aren't planning to tell these kids
              that 'virgin' was tattooed into both Stacy
              and Rod, are you?

                    BRENT
              No.

                    TOM
              Good.

                    BRENT
              But I am going to have to question
              all of their past boyfriends and girlfriends.

                    TOM
              Fine, just don't mention the carving
              This is going to be a tough enough day
              as it is.

There's a knock at the door. Jody enters.

                    BRENT
              Hi honey.

                    JODY
              Hi Daddy. Hi Mr. Sisler.

                    TOM
              Hi Jody.

                    BRENT
              I just wanted to check that
              you were okay?

                   JODY
              I'm fine. I've just never had
              someone my age die before.
              It's so weird.

                   BRENT
              How well did you know Stacy and
              Rod?

                   JODY
              I've been in the same class
              with Stacy for years but we
              weren't tight or anything.

                   BRENT
              Had either of them broken
              up with someone recently?
              Hurt someone?

                   JODY
              No. Those two were together
              before Kenny and I started
              hanging out and that's over,
              what, God a year now.

                   BRENT
              I want you to head right home
              after school.

                   JODY
              I will. Is that all?

                   TOM
              Could you tell Mr. Marliston
              we'd like to see him.

                   JODY
              SURE.

She leaves.

                   BRENT
              Why'd you send for Lenny Marliston?

                   TOM
              The kids adore him. They confide
              in him. His patchouli reeking rear
              might know if Stacy and Rod were
              really virgins. Why didn't you
              ask Jody that?

                   BRENT
              She's my daughter, Tom.

                   TOM
              So?

                   BRENT
              So you just don't point
              blank ask your teenage daughter
              about sex.

                   TOM
              Why not? You worried you might
              find out how much she actually
              knows?

Brent gives Tom a 'keep your cynical shit off my daughter' look.

                   LEONARD
              You rang?

                   TOM
              Come in Leonard. Have you
              met Brent Marken?

                   LEONARD
              No but I've always wanted to.

He shakes his hand firmly.

                   BRENT
              Nice to meet you too. My
              daughter speaks highly of you.

Leonard examines Brent's face carefully. Brent is a little taken aback by 
his intensity.

                   LEONARD
              We have the same color eyes.

                   BRENT
              I guess we do.

CUT TO:

INT. CAFTERIA

MARK SHALE, a seventeen year old, rail thin pothead is sitting at a table 
in the crowded cafeteria eating lunch. The place is a zoo. CINDY, a cute, 
mini-skirted brunette, and BEN,  a frizzy-haired, tattooed, pierced, punk-
rocker, are sitting with him.

Jody is standing at the door with her best friend SANDY, looking for a 
place to sit. Sandy is thin and a little underdeveloped for her age. She 
is wearing very little make-up, a baggy shirt and baggy jeans. Although 
she looks much more tomboyish than Jody and a year or two younger, she is 
still quite cute and curvy, just lacking a  bit in self-confidence when it 
comes to boys. Sandy is staring at Mark.

                   JODY
             Go sit next to him.

                   SANDY
             Who?

                   JODY
             Mark Shale.

                   SANDY
             Why?

                   JODY
             Don't you want to talk to him?
             You watch him eat everyday.

                   SANDY
             I don't watch him eat everyday.

                   JODY
             You stare at him non-stop,
             like every lunch. Like this. Like
             most people stare at car accidents.

Jody imitates Sandy.

                   SANDY
             The seat behind him is open. Come on,
             I can eavesdrop too.

                   JODY
             You eventually have to talk to him.

                   SANDY
             Why? All my mom and dad ever do is
             watch each other eat and they've been
             married for twenty years.

Cindy sees Jody approaching and motions her over.

                   CINDY
             Jody!

Jody starts toward her table.

                   SANDY
              No! That's his table.

                   JODY
              You're going to look really
              amoebic splitting off from me now.

The other three kids look up as Jody sits don.

Sandy has no choice but to sit down next to Mark. She immediately freezes 
up.

                   CINDY
              Did your dad question you
              this morning?

                   JODY
              Just a little.

                   BEN
              Did he ask you if Stacy
              and Rod has ever exchanged
              bodily fluids?

                   JODY
              No. Why?

                   CINDY
              He asked Marliston.

                   JODY
              If they had ever gone all the way?

                   BEN
              Yeah. Chris BERRINGER WAS PARKED
              OUTSIDE THE WINDOW.

                  CINDY
              I wonder why it's so important
              to know if they fucked?

Sandy is completely frozen. Jody realizes it. Mark is paying no attention 
to her.

                   BEN
              What I don't understand is
              why they asked Marliston if
              Rod was a virgin. They could have
              asked you Cindy.

                  CINDY
              I never fucked Rod.

                  BEN
              Exactly. Then he must be a virgin.

Jody nudges Sandy under the table, trying to prompt her to say something. 
Sandy can only stare at Mark as he eats.

                   CINDY(O.C.)
              If I'm so all-used-up Ben,
              why do you try to hook me
              up non-stop?

                  BEN(O.C.)
              As fucking if.

Across the cafeteria, a sophomore ANNETTE storms in very upset. She 
confronts DYLAN, her junior boyfriend.

                  ANNETTE
              You're a shitsucking liar!

                  DYLAN
                (taunting)
              Better than being a 'cocksucking'
              liar!

                  ANNETTE
              Shut your face!

Annette leaps on Dylan and starts violently scratching him. Mr. Marliston 
runs over and pulls her off. He drags Annette away.

                  ANNETTE
               He's been telling people....

                   LEONARD
              You can tell me all about it in
              my office. Calm down. We're all
              on edge today.

He guides her out.

Sandy gets up her nerve and makes eye contact with Mark.

                   SANDY
               What's up with that?

Mark opens a TWINKIE and starts to eat it.

                   MARK
               Dylan's been telling people
               that Annette gave him a blow
               job.

                   SANDY
               And she didn't?

Ben and Mark laugh.

                   BEN
                There's a better chance that he
                got head from all five Spice Girls.

                  SANDY
                That's horrible.

Cindy laughs at Sandy. Sandy doesn't appreciate being laughed at.

                  CINDY
                I think it's funny.

                  BEN
               Me too. I'm going to start
               telling people that I saw her drop
                to her knees and latch on to his
                unit vector.

Cindy laughs. The first meeting hasn't gone well for Sandy. Jody feels for 
her and jumps to her rescue.

                   JODY
                You wouldn't?

                  BEN
                I would if Dylan paid me.

INT.  SCHOOL

The bell rings. It's the end of the day.

EXT.  SCHOOL

All the kids charge out. Jody walks out with Sandy.

                  SANDY
               (flustered)
              What am I supposed to say?
              'Nice sweater Mark'? 'Did you
              buy it at Eddie Bauer's?'

                  JODY
                (teasing a bit)
              You could tell him you really
              liked the way he chews with his
              back molars.

                 SANDY
              You're so fucking lucky your
              dad is the sheriff.

                 JODY
              You are 'sp fucking' wrong.

                 SANDY
              You get to be a little Chelsea
              Clinton. Everyone wants to meet
              you. Party with you. Have sex with you.

                 JODY
              But you can't do any of it.
              So it sucks. I always have to
              'set an example'.

Jody stops, noticing something.

EXT.  PARKING LOT

Jody's POV - Kenny is walking to his car with Sharon.

Sandy sees how upset Jody is.

                  SANDY
               He's just trying to mess
               with your head. Ignore
               him.

                   JODY
               Does she fuck?

                  SANDY
               (trying to comfort)
               I doubt it. Who'd want
               to fuck her. She probably
               reeks worse than the docks
               down in those panties.

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. STREET 

Jody is slowly pedaling her bicycle next to Sandy.

                   JODY
                (frustrated)
              Mr. Jenkins called on me in
              class today. It was so embarrassing.
              I was seriously spaced. I'd been thinking
              about Kenny for over twenty minutes.
              When I snapped out of it, I looked pathetic.
              I was teared up. Everyone was staring at me.

                  STACY
             What did you say?

                  JODY
             That I was sorry. I'd drifted off.
             That I'd been thinking about Stacy
             and Rod.

                  SANDY
             Oh nice save.

                  JODY
             I was desperate. It was gross.

                  SANDY
             Kenny'll come running back.
             This is just his way of pressuring
             you.

                  JODY
             He says he loves me.

                  SANDY
             Personally I think he has a deep,
             almost pathological desire to corrupt
             you. But I suppose that's a type of love.
             I certainly wish someone wanted to corrupt me.

                  JODY
                 (musing)
            Maybe I should blister through a bottle of
            Tequila and just fuck his brains out.

                  SANDY
            No!

                  JODY
            You're the one always saying 'Just do it'.

                  SANDY
            That was before he pulled this 'Dick me
            or I dump you' shit. I say fuck his best
            friend.

Jody laughs.

                  JODY
            I don't know what I'm so scared of.

                  SANDY
            Want to come in for awhile?
            Log onto AOL, flirt with some married men,
            head into a private S&M chat room . . .

                  JODY
            How do you know what to type back when
            they start to cyber with you.

                  SANDY
            I keep a couple of my dad's porno books
            hidden in my desk for emergency reference.

Jody laughs.

                  JODY
            I promised I'd go right home after school.

                  SANDY
            OK. increase the peace.

Sandy hip-hops up her driveway and into her house. Jody jumps on her bike 
and pedals off down the street.

Dissolve to:

EXT. CHERRY FALLS - NIGHT

Night has set again on the town. An OWL HOOTS. THE STREETS ARE QUIET.

EXT.  STREET

The killer's car, the black IMPERIAL, lurks in the shadows of a suburban 
street. The killer is staking out a specific house.

EXT.  ANNETTE'S HOUSE

Annette, the girl who flipped out in the cafeteria appears at the front 
door. Her MOTHER and FATHER are going out.

They kiss ANNETTE goodbye, get in their car and drive away. Annette heads 
back inside and double locks the door.

EXT.  RESTAURANT

Annette's parents pull up in front of a restaurant and head inside.

THE KILLER'S IMPERIAL PULLS up across the street.

INT.  RESTAURANT

The killer's car drives away.

EXT.  ANNETTE'S

A gloved finger pushes in the back doorbell.

INT.  BACK HALLWAY

Annette opens the back door. It's chain locked. She peeks through the 
chain,

EXT. HOUSE

Someone is standing there in the shadows.

                  KILLER(O.C.)
              HI. Annette?

It's a WOMAN'S VOICE.

INTERCUT WITH:

INT.  HOUSE

Annette has never seen this woman before. WE still don't see the killer's 
face.
     
                  ANNETTE
                 (suspicious)
             Yeah?

                  KILLER(O.C.)
            I'm Lisa Sherman. Dylan's
            aunt. He asked me to come
            talk to you.

                  ANNETTE
            Why?

                  KILLER(O.C.)
            He feels terrible about those things
            he said to you in school.

                 ANNETTE
                 (really angry)
           He should. Four guys hit on me today,
           and not because they find me intellectually
           stimulating.

                 KILLER(O.C.)
           I think I know how to restore your
           reputation.

                  ANNETTE
                (excited)
           You do?

                  KILLER(O.C.)
           Can I come in? I'll need to use the
           phone.

Annette isn't sure what to do but this is too important to pass up.

                  ANNETTE
            Sure.

Annette unlocks the chain. The killer heads inside.

THE DOOR OMINOUSLY closes behind them.

INT.  RESTAURANT

Wine is being poured into already half-filled glasses.

Annette's parents and the other couple are now a little tipsy, much looser 
than when we saw them earlier. They are laughing, rubbing each other, 
getting physical.

The other HUSBAND leans in and kisses Annette's' mother on the nose. 
Annette's father is at first taken aback but then he responds by kissing 
the other WIFE on the ear. They all laugh. It's getting fancy for Cherry 
Falls.

INT.  HOUSE - DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY

ANNETTE comes charging down the hallway, groggy, bleeding profusely from 
the side of her head, terrified.

                  ANNETTE
               Help!

INT.  RESTAURANT

More wine is poured. The two couples eye each other, giggling.

INT.  BEDROOM

Annette charges into her bedroom and slams the door behind her, locking 
it. She quickly pulls her dresser in front of the door.

The door handle moves. The killer is on the other side.

Annette picks up the telephone. it's dead.

The killer kicks the door a couple of times.

Annette backs away from the door, all the way to the window. She grabs a 
sharp pen, holding it like it's a knife. The kicking stops, All is 
momentarily quiet.

Suddenly the killer's shadow appears in the window behind Annette. The 
window smashes an d Annette's neck is pulled towards the shards of glass 
that remain in the broken window.

Annette struggles but she's not strong enough.

INT.  RESTAURANT

Under the table, the other man puts his hand on Annette's mom's knee.
Annette's mom smiles at the man, drunk and interested.

INT.  HOUSE

The killer lowers Annette's throat closer to the shard of glass.

INT.  RESTAURANT

Annette's mom pushes the man's hand under her dress.

INT.  HOUSE

Annette's throat touches the glass. She's all but lost.

INT.  RESTAURANT

Annette's mom lets out a huge  laugh, knocking over her red win, soaking 
the white tablecloth in red.

INT.  HOUSE

Annette's eyes roll up into her head.

Annette, half alive is dragged out the window.

Out come the hammer and nails.

CUT TO:

EXT.  HOUSE

Annette's parents pull into the driveway:

They are still giggling. It's been a great night. They are sauced.

INT.  LIVING ROOM

Annette's parents come inside.

                  MOTHER
            Annette. We're home.

She notices a red spot on the carpet and leans over to inspect it.

INT.  HALLWAY

Annette's mom starts down the hallway, noticing the trail of blood leading 
to Annette's door, realizing something is wrong.

                   MOTHER
               (concerned)
             Annette?

She tugs at Annette's door.

INT.  BEDROOM

The door is still barricaded.

EXT.  CORRIDOR

Her mother frantically tugs at the door. Her dad appears.

                   MOTHER
             Annette!!

Her dad lifts his foot and starts kicking at the door.

It begins to splinter.

INT.  BEDROOM

They break through. Annette's dad pushes the dresser out of the way and 
they barge in.

The room seems to be empty except the window has been broken and blood's 
splattered around it.

                   MOTHER
             Annette?

She notices the shade to the other window has been drawn and is flapping 
oddly, caught on something.

She walks over, frightened, gathers her nerve, then pulls the shade up.

Annette has been nailed to the outside of the house, her dead eyes looking 
in.

'VIRGIN' is carved deeply in her forehead.

Her mother screams.

CUT TO:

EXT. HOUSE

COP Cars are everywhere.

INT.  BEDROOM

Brent is staring at the word 'VIRGIN', carved into Annette's forehead. 
He's really worried, He's figured out that his town is under siege.

INT.  LIVING ROOM

Annette's parents are downstairs, shocked. They hug each other, having 
nowhere else to turn.

CUT TO:

INT.  MARKEN LIVING ROOM

Brent enters his own house. Marge is waiting for him.

                  BRENT
             Is Jody still awake?

                  MARGE
             She just turned off her light.

Brent darts up the stairs.

INT.  JODY'S BEDROOM 

Jody is in bed. There's a soft knock on the door. She rolls over.

                  JODY
             Come in.

Brent walks in and seats himself on the edge of the bed.

                  BRENT
             Hi honey.

                 JODY
             What's wrong?

                  BRENT
             I have a question to ask you.
             A personal question.

Jody sits up, pulling the covers up over her breasts.

                 JODY
               (uncomfortable)
             How personal?

Brent takes a deep breath. He's really uncomfortable.

                  BRENT
             I need to know how far you
             and Kenny went?

Jody is really uncomfortable with this question.

                 JODY
             What do you mean?

                 BRENT
               (gently probing)
            Well, I assume you let him kiss you?

                 JODY
            Well yeah. Of course.
            Everyone kisses.
     
                 BRENT
            I'm not criticizing.
                (very uncomfortable)_
            Did you two get any further?

                  JODY
            A little.

                 BRENT
            How much further?

                 JODY
            Daddy! I DON'T THINK THIS IS
            ANY OF YOUR BUSINESS!

                 BRENT
            I wouldn't ask if I didn't have
            to.

                 JODY
            Not much further.

                  BRENT
            You never went, uh, all the way?

                 JOY
               (sighs)
            No.

Brent nods, worried. He's obviously upset.

                 BRENT
               (very worried)
            Ok.

                 JODY
               (confused)
            Daddy, are you upset that
            I'm still a virgin?!

                BRENT
            No honey.

                JODY
            You are upset.

                   BRENT
            I'm not.

                JODY
               (upset)
            I thought you'd be pleased.

                BRENT
            I am. I'm so very proud
            of you. Go back to sleep.

He kisses her on the forehead and heads out. She is very confused.

INT.  LIVING ROOM

Brent comes down the stairs.

                 MARGE
             Well?

                 BRENT
             She's still a virgin.

                 MARGE
             Did you warn her?

                 BRENT
             No. Let her get at least
             one more peacefully night's
             sleep.

EXT.  CHERRY FALLS

It's a new day. As the kids arrive at school, rumors are flying. Everyone 
is a little more on edge. The same tribes exist but kids are starting to 
glance and listen to kids from other tribes. The social structure is 
starting to fray.

INT.  PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE

Brent is upset, confused.

                   BRENT
              If I'd gone public with this
              yesterday Annette Michaels might
              be alive today.

                   TOM
              Oh GOD Brent, is there anything
              you don't feel guilty about?

                   BRENT
              is there anything you do?

                    TOM
             Focus on the present. You always
             want to change the past. Let's figure
             out what you are going to tell the parents
             today, not what you should told them
             yesterday.

                   BRENT
             I'm going to tell them everything I know.
             I'm calling a town meeting for eight p.m.

                   TOM
             You tell these people someone is out there
             killing virgins and we're going to have a     
             goddamn fuckfest on our hands.

                  BRENT
             Better than a pile of dead teenagers.

EXT.  TOWN HALL

The town bell rings in the steeple. It's eight o'clock.

EXT.  MAIN STREET

The shops close down. All the townsfolk head toward the assembly hall.

EXT.  SCHOOL

The parents arrive. They are all concerned. They've all heard rumors by 
now. They hurry into the school, whispering to one another.

INT.  AUDITORIUM

The parents are seated, whispering, buzzing. Brent walks up to the podium. 
He's very nervous as he looks out at the crowd, realizing he's going to 
really, really upset them. He takes a deep breath.

                  BRENT
            I think you all know why I CALLED THIS
            Town meeting. In the last two days, three
            of our children have been murdered and it
            appears that we have now established a common
            link between the killings.

The crowd grows still. Everyone is interested in this information.
Brent pauses.

                   FATHER 1
             Well, what is it?

                   BRENT
             All three of the victims attended our
             public high school and all three were or appear
             to have been...um...virgins.

There is a ripple of confusion that runs through the auditorium.

                   MOTHER 1
             So?

                   MOTHER 2
                (very concerned)
             You're almost positive that's
             who this monster is targeting?

                   MOTHER 1
             Virgins?

                   BRENT
             We found the word 'virgin' written
             at both crime scenes.

                    FATHER 1
             Why didn't you tell us this yesterday?

                   BRENT
             We didn't think this was a serial killer.
             We thought it was an isolated incident.

This is all very upsetting to everyone.

                   MOTHER 3
             Are you close to an arrest?

                   BRENT
             I can't say we are.

                   FATHER 2
             What are we supposed to do?

                   BRENT
             What do you mean?

                    MOTHER 2
             What are we supposed to tell
             our kids?

                   FATHER 2
             To go out and get laid if they
             wanna feel safe?

                   BRENT
             I think that's' up to each and
             everyone of you.

                   FATHER 3
            I can't lock my daughter in
            the basement.

                   FATHER 2
            I wouldn't worry about it Victor.

A few other parents laugh.

                   FATHER 3
            What's that supposed to mean?

                   FATHER 2
            Nothing.

                   FATHER 3
            What are you saying about my
            daughter?

Father 3 starts towards Father 2. Tempers are short.

                   FATHER 2
               (getting worried)
            Calm down. I was joking.

Father 3 pushes Father 2.

                   FATHER 3
            Hell of a time to be joking about
            a thing like that you sick bastard!

Father 3 swings at him. A fight ensues. Other parents start to jump in. 
Tempers are short. Brent leaps down to break it up.

EXT.  TOWN

A match lights a long fuse.

Fire crackles along the ground toward a huge string of firecrackers and 
Roman candles. They ignite. The firecrackers explode as balls of fire 
shoot into the night sky. TEENAGERS howl.

INT.  SANDY'S BEDROOM

Jody is talking on the phone to Sandy. Sandy's room is typical teenage 
room, identical in feel to Jody's.

                    SANDY
               (really worried)
            What are we going to do?

INT.  JODY'S BEDROOM

Jody is lying on her bed.

                    JODY
            Sandy, you have to chill out,
            at least two-thirds of the kids
            in our class are still virgins.
            He can't butcher all of us.
     
                    SANDY
            There will be a lot fewer by
            tomorrow night.

EXT.  HOUSE

The killer's imperial pulls up across the street from Jody's.

INT.  JODY'S

                    JODY
            Not that many.

                     SANDY
            You watch. There's going to be
            a hymen holocaust tomorrow.
            Maybe I'll finally talk to Mark
            Shale.

                    JODY
            NO?!

There's a sound on the phone. Sandy's brother ANDY has picked it up.

                   SANDY
            Andy! I'm on the phone!

INT.  DOWNSTAIRS AT SANDY'S

ANDY, Sandy's thirteen year old brother is on the line.

                   ANDY(ON THE PHONE)
             I just wanted to offer my
             services to Jody.

                   SANDY
             Your services?

                    ANDY
             I'm willing to help save her life.
             Jody, if you want to come over right
             now. We could slip up into the attic for
             a few minutes. There's an old mattress
             up there...

                   SANDY
             MOM!

Andy hangs up laughing.

INT.  JODY'S

Jody chuckles but all of a sudden the line goes dead.

                   JODY
              Hello?

Jody tries to call back but the phone isn't working. This spooks her. The 
doorbell rings downstairs. Now Jody is more than spooked. She's SCARED. 
She goes to the window to see who it is.

EXT.  HOUSE 

Someone is standing in the shadows below. All Jody can make out is that 
it's a woman.

INT.  STAIRS

Jody, dressed only in her nightshirt, cautiously heads downstairs to the 
back door.

INT.  BACK HALLWAY

JODY looks through the back door window.

EXT.  BACK DOOR

There's someone in the shadows.

Jody opens the door a crack.

                   JODY
               Yes?

                    KILLER(O.C.)
               Are you Jody?

Once again, a woman's voice.

                    JODY
               Yeah.

                    KILLER(O.C.)
               I'm Kenny's Aunt Lisa.

                   JODY
               Kenny's aunt?

                  KILLER(O.C.)
               Yes. He asked me to come over
               and talk to you.

Jody senses something is off.

                   JODY
               On what side of the family?

                   KILLER(O.C.)
               His mother's side.

                    JODY
                His mother's an only child.

Jody suddenly gets it and tries to slam the door closed but the killer is 
too fast, sliding a hand and foot in, pushing her way into the house.

Jody fights to push the door shut but she can't. The killer is stronger. 
The killer's hand gropes for the lock latch.

Jody frantically looks around for a weapon and spots an electric 
screwdriver sitting in the back pantry. She grabs for the screwdriver with 
one hand as the killer pushes harder.

Jody drills the killer's elbow.

The killer screams and lets go. Jody slams the door shut, double locking 
it.

INT.  FRONT HALLWAY

Jody runs to the front hall and double locks the front door.

INT.  LIVING ROOM

Jody picks up a phone but it's dead downstairs too. She looks around.

EXT.  HOUSE

She notices a shadow move across the back window. The killer hasn't left. 
The killer seems to be following her.

INT.  FRONT HALL CLOSET

Jody grabs a baseball bat from the front hall closet. The killer's shadow 
appears outside.

INT.  KITCHEN 

Jody runs into the kitchen, grabs a knife. The window above her breaks. 
The killer is right outside.

INT.  DINING ROOM

Jody runs into the dining room, not sure where to go. Suddenly the window 
breaks there. The killer is stalking her from the outside.

INT.  HOUSE - MONTAGE

THE HOUSE is under siege and Jody is trapped in it. She runs from room to 
room, turning the lights out but windows break wherever she goes. It's 
terrifying.

INT.  FOYER

Suddenly there is a silence. Jody stops running. She realizes that the 
killer must be climbing in somewhere. Jody isn't sure what to do.

She hears something in the family room.

INT.  FAMILY ROOM

Jody enters. She sees the killer's shadow cross the window. She runs out.

INT.  HALLWAY

Jody creeps through the dark house, unsure where to go.

INT.  DEN

Jody creeps back into the den. The killer doesn't seem to be there either.

The window is broken. The curtains flap in the breeze. She moves toward 
it, wondering whether it's safe to climb out. She looks in the mirror.

In the mirror, Jody can see the killer's shoes peeking out from under the 
drapes. The killer's in the room. The drapes start to move.

Jody turns around and swings the bat, hitting the killer squarely in the 
head, sending her to the ground, pulling the drapes down.

INT.  HOUSE

Jody tears for the front door.

INT.  FRONT HALL

Jody's too nervous to unlock the front door.

She hears the killer coming so she tears up the stairs.

INT.  STAIRCASE

Jody scampers up the staircase but she's not fast enough. The killer grabs 
her leg through the wooden slatted banister starts pulling her off the 
staircase, breaking the wooden slats.

Jody grabs one of the jagged slats and rams the sharp end into the 
killer's hand, freeing herself.

INT.  STAIRS

Jody charges up the stairs and into the bathroom.

INT.  BATHROOM

Jody closes the bathroom door and locks it.

The killer starts kicking it in.

INT.  BATHROOM

Jody opens the small bathroom window to climb out on the roof.

The door starts to splinter.

Jody tries to wriggle her way out but it's tight.

Behind her she hears the door splintering open.

EXT.  ROOF

Jody squeezes through and grabs hold of the chimney, using it to pull 
herself out.

INT.  BATHROOM

The killer's hand grabs Jody's leg just as Jody's pulling herself free. 
The killer closes the window on Jody's leg, trapping it inside. Out comes 
the razor.

EXT.  ROOF

Jody fights for her freedom, tugging at the chimney, kicking and 
screaming: All of a sudden she feels a surge of pain. She screams and 
kicks with all her might, freeing herself, her momentum sending her 
rolling down the roof. She rolls off the roof, barely grabbing hold of the 
gutter, hanging from it.

The gutter starts to break.

Above her she can hear the killer coming out onto the roof.

The killer's silhouette hovers above, ready to grab her.

Jody knows she has no choice.

Jody lets go of the gutter.

EXT. BACKYARD

Jody falls twenty feet to the ground below.

                  JODY
              Help!

Jody smashes to the ground.

EXT.  NEIGHBOR'S

A neighbor hears the clatter and comes running out to see what's going on.

EXT.  BACKYARD

Jody lies still on the ground.

EXT.  ROOF

The killer, still in silhouette, looks down from the roof.

EXT.  BACKYARD

Jody's neighbor runs over to help her.

Jody rolls over, still groggy.

Jody looks up to the roof.

EXT.  ROOF

THE KILLER IS GONE.

EXT.  BACKYARD

Jody looks back down at her bloody leg. There is a 'V' carved into it.

CUT TO:

EXT.  HOUSE

Later that night. Police cars are lined up outside the house.

INT.  HOUSE

Police are scouring the house. Jody is trying to sup some hot chocolate 
but her hands are still shaking.

                JODY
            It was a she.

                 BRENT
            Are you sure?

                JODY
           She said she was Kenny's aunt Lisa.

Her mom comes in with a bottle of cognac, ready to pour a little into 
Jody's cup.

                BRENT
           What are you doing?

                 MARGE
           This will relax her.

                 BRENT
           She's underage.

Brent motions towards the cops, his co-workers, who are scurrying around 
the house. Mom gives Brent a dirty look and pours just a spot into Jody's 
glass. Sandy enters. She sees Jody and runs to her.

                SANDY
           Oh my god. ARE YOU OK?

Jody breaks into tears. They hug.

                 JODY
           Someone tried to kill me.

                 SANDY
           The phone just went dead.
           I called the police and ran
           right over as fast as I could.

Sandy is really terrified too.

Dissolve to:

EXT.  CHERRY FALLS

Another morning in CHERRY FALLS. The town may look peaceful but it isn't.

INT.  SANDY'S BATHROOM

Sandy is getting dressed in her usual manner but he hand is shaking. She's 
still terrified. She looks at herself in the mirror and decides to make a 
change.

Lipstick goes on. mascara and eyeliner follow.

Sandy examines herself in the mirror. She's all made-up. SHE USUALLY wears 
a tenth as much.

INT.  SANDY'S BEDROOM

Sandy slides into a slightly provocative dress. She looks much hotter than 
she did when we first met her.

INT.  STAIRCASE

Sandy starts down the stairs. She stops to check out where her mother is.

INT.  KITCHEN

SANDY'S MOTHER is making breakfast.

INT.  STAIRCASE

Sandy hurries downstairs, grabs her coat and heads out the door, hoping 
her mom won't notice how she's dressed.

Her mom hears her and catches a glimpse of her new outfit.

                 MOTHER
            You're wearing a skirt?

Sandy doesn't want to get into it. She charges right out the door.

                 SANDY
            Bye mom.

EXT.  SANDY'S HOUSE

Sandy goes tearing up the street as her mother opens the door after her.
                 MOTHER
            SANDY?!

No way is Sandy turning around.

EXT.  SCHOOL

The kids arrive at School. Everyone is freaked. The word spreads fast 
about Jody's attack. Many of the kids, like Sandy, have worn a little 
extra make-up or a little tighter jeans. There's a sexual electricity 
everywhere mixed in with a lot of fear.

The normal tribes are disbanding. What are forming in their place are 
sexual tribes. Today, at the high school, sexual history bands kids 
together. Not aesthetics, popularity, or wealth. Punkers chat with nerds, 
cheerleaders with potheads.

In the parking lot, we see that Aunt Lisa's IMPERIAL is parked. The killer 
is close by.

EXT.  FRONT OF SCHOOL

Sandy arrives at school. She looks around.

She spots Mark talking with Cindy and BEN. She gathers her confidence up, 
unbuttons her top button to reveal what cleavage she has, and starts 
towards them.

Cindy is laughing at Ben.

                 CINDY
             I'm not fucking you.
             Not for all your CDS.

                  BEN
             You want me to die? I thought
             you and I were tight.

                 CINDY
             ARE YOU THE KILLER BEN?

                 BEN
             WOULD that impress you?
             IS that what it takes to
             impress the empress?

                 CINDY
             Your mind is just twisted enough.
             I believe you'd do all this just to
             get a dip or two.

Sandy walks up.
                 SANDY
             Hi Mark, Cindy, Ben.

                  MARK
             Hi Sandy.

They all stare at her for a second, noticing the change in her appearance.
                 BEN
             Did you want something?

Sandy freezes. She doesn't known what to say.

                  SANDY
               (almost frozen)
            Yes.(beat) I was just curious
            Mark, if you brought a Twinkie
            today?

Ben and Cindy crack up. That was a really lame, stupid question.

                 BEN
              (sarcastically)
            You wonder about that everyday Sandy?

                 MARK
            Shut up Ben.
                 (to sandy)
            Actually, my mom always
            packs two.

                  SANDY
            You got a great mom.
            I'm lucky to get a zucchini
            stick.

                  MARK
            Did you want one?

                  SANDY
             (trying to cover)
            Yeah I was talking about Twinkies
            the other day and I realized I hadn't had one
            in years. Then I remembered seeing you with
            one.

                   MARK
            They're tasty.

He gets out the Twinkie and gives it to her. She unwraps it and takes a 
bite. Ben and Cindy watch, amazed and entertained.

                 SANDY
            Thanks.

Sandy gets  a little cream on her cheek and licks it away with her tongue, 
a little embarrassed. The sight of her tongue turns Mark on.

                 MARK
            You can have both if you want.

                 SANDY
            No, you keep one.

Cindy laughs. The pairing up has started.

CUT TO:

INT.  POLICE STATION

Jody is sitting in the police station working with a SKETCH ARTIST.

                  JODY
           A little larger nose.

The artist makes a change.

                 ARTIST
           How's that?

Jody re-examines the picture. She's spooked.

                  JODY
           That's her.

The artist picks up the phone and dials.

                  ARTIST
           Brent, we got a sketch.

Brent comes into the room and picks up the sketch, 

FOR THE FIRST TIME we see a picture of the killer. She looks about 
eighteen years old and has her hair done in an old fashioned wave. She 
looks like your average small town girl from the late sixties.

Brent's face goes white when he sees who it is.

Jody notices this.
               
                  JODY
             You know her?

                  BRENT
             It can't be.

                  JODY
             Who is she Daddy?

                  BRENT
             Never mind darling.
             You go back to school.
             I don't want you missing
             anymore classes today.

He picks up the picture and heads quickly into his own office. Jody 
watches through his window, sensing he's very, very upset.

INT.  OFFICE

Brent picks up the phone and quickly dials a number.

INT.  MAIN ROOM

Jody has never seen her dad like this. She quietly picks up the phone and 
listens in.

Her dad is talking to the principal, Tom Sisler.

                 BRENT
           IT'S LISA SHERMAN. But she still
           looks like we're eighteen.

                  TOM
              (on phone)
            That's impossible.

                  BRENT
              (growing frantic)
           I swear to God. It's her.
           She told Jody she was Kenny's
           'AUNT LISA'. I'm getting this
           sickly feeling...

                  TOM
           Calm down Brent.

INT.  OFFICE

Brent looks out and sees that JODY is on the phone, eavesdropping.

                  BRENT
           I'll call you right back.

INT.  MAIN ROOM

Jody, busted, hangs up.

Brent comes storming out. HER FATHER is livid. SHE'S NEVER SEEN HIM SO 
ANGRY AND UPTIGHT.

                 BRENT
            You were eavesdropping.

                  JODY
              (a little scared)
            No I wasn't.

                  BRENT
           What did you hear?

                  JODY
           Nothing. I just picked up the phone
           to say goodbye to you. You didn't say
           goodbye.

                  BRENT
           Ok. Goodbye. Now get back to school.

She nods and heads out, freaked. Her father's never treated her this 
harshly before.

EXT.  HIGH SCHOOL

As Jody approaches the high school, she's still on the edge, given the 
attack of the night before as well as he dad's reaction to the picture. 
She hears a moan coming from behind some bushes. She stops and notices a 
Girl's shoe sticking out from under the bush. Worried it might be someone 
badly hurt, she cautiously starts toward it. Suddenly a couple of more 
feet pop out. Jody jumps back, frightened, but then realizes that it's 
just a  couple of her classmates having sex in the bushes.

Jody heads toward the main school entrance. She starts noticing a lot of 
kids are outside, a few more hidden from sight, having sex. Something's 
up. 

INT.  HIGH SCHOOL

Jody opens her locker. Sandy comes running up to her, very excited.

                 SANDY
            You ok?

                 JODY
           (noticing Sandy's attire)
           FINE. Are you?

                  SANDY
           Hurricane Hormone. it's flattened the
           whole school. Guess what?

                  JODY
           What?

                  SANDY
              (whispering)
            Mark invited me to the party.

                  JODY     
             What party?

                  SANDY
           Shh. Ben's party. Tonight.
           Haven't you heard?

                 JODY
           No.

Sandy notices that a teacher is nearby. Sandy pulls Jody into a stairwell.

INT.  STAIRWELL

Jody is now really intrigued.

                  SANDY
              (whispering)
           You can't tell your parents.

                  JODY
           Ok.

                  SANDY
           Especially not your dad.

                  JODY
           I won't.

                  SANDY
             (whispering)
           It's like a pop your cherry party.
           Everyone's saying it's 'Fuck or Die' time.

                 JODY
           You're thinking of sleeping with Mark
           tonight?

                  SANDY
           Unless he makes a move during
           seventh period.

                  JODY
           Didn't you have something a little
           more romantic in mind for your first
           time?

                 SANDY
             (very excited)
           I kind of like the idea that we can all
           lose it together, on the same night.
           It'll be a lot less scary. You have to
           go.

                 JODY
           Stag?

                SANDY
           Kenny'll want to go with you.
           Cindy's holding a Q and A
           session at the bleachers.
           Come on.

                JODY
           I can't right now.

                 SANDY
           Jody, you have to go to the party.
           For your own safety.

Sandy takes off.

EXT.  BLEACHERS

Cindy is setting with a group of girls, the center of attention.

                CINDY
            You all are such hypocrites.
            All year long you sit on your
            judgmental little butts and 
            call me the slut from hell.
            NOW YOU RUN TO ME, quaking in fear,
            BEGGING for advice...

                HYPOCRITE GIRL 1
           Yeah. SO?

                 HYPOCRITE GIRL 2
           What were we supposed to call you
           Cindy?

                 GIRL 1
           The slut from heaven?

                GIRL 3
            Just answer our questions please?

Sandy runs up.

                CINDY
               (loving the role)
           What do you want to know?

                 GIRL 3
           What to do.

                CINDY
           You have to do everything
           Boys are totally clueless when
           it comes to sex.

This answer terrifies the audience.

                 CINDY(cont'd)
           It starts with them trying to
           unhook our bras, fumbling around,
           and never changes. Wait until they try
           to put their dicks in you.

                 GIRL 2
           Please don't say they need our help
           with that.

                 CINDY
           Always. Unless you want them to just
           poke around endlessly.

The girls had no idea.

INT.  CAR

Three stoners are smoking a bowl in their car. They are not nearly as 
collaborative or supportive of one another as the girls were.

                BOY 1
           Romeo here asked me if chicks has two
           holes or three.

                 BOY 2
           I did not.

                BOY 1
           You did so.

                 BOY 2
           I was kidding.

                BOY 3
           Were not dude.

                 BOY 1
           I know it's a total bummer
           that three kids are dead, but, I'm sorry,
           this is kind of great.

                 BOY 3
           I'm way into this. This may be the best
           of all possible worlds.

                 BOY 2
           No. The killer could be offing
           chicks who haven't given head.

They all laugh again and nod, slapping hands, Beavis and Butt-head style.
                BOY 2
           Then I'd only have to worry about
           one.

They all laugh again.

EXT.  PARKING LOT

Two HOMELY GIRLS, one rail thin, the other slightly overweight, walk back 
towards the school.

                 HOMELY GIRL 1
           We'll meet someone at the party.

                 HOMELY GIRL 2
           You don't know that.

                 HOMELY GIRL 1
           If we don't, we sit back and watch
           everyone else camel.
           That's got to be better than
           hanging at your house.

                 HOMELY GIRL 2
           I'm not going.

They notice a group of kids huddled around a car.

                  HOMELY GIRL 1
           What's that?

They walk up.

'VIRGIN' has been written in blood on one of the windshields.  A mutilated 
boy looks out of the driver's window of the car.  The girl's faces go 
white. IT'S ANOTHER BODY!

More and more kids gather around the murder site. The kids are all 
freaked, giving each other the eye. No one wants to be next.

All of a sudden the body moves, screaming to the heavens, freaking all the 
kids out. The dead body leaps out of the car and runs away as other kids 
and teachers run over. Everyone heard the scream.

Homely girl 2 whispers to her friend.

                   HOMELY GIRL 2
                (whispering)
             Ok. Pick me up at seven.

INT.  CORRIDOR

Chaos has taken over the school. Hardly anyone is still going to classes.

Kenny is standing in the hallway, looking for Jody. He knows her class 
schedule and that she'll be passing by.

Jody appears from her classroom. She starts toward Kenny, at first not 
noticing him.

Jody looks up and she sees him. She stops. She knows what he's there to 
talk to her about. He runs over to her.

                   KENNY
                (very concerned)
           Are you O.K.?

                    JODY
           I'm fine.

                    KENNY
           I heard you got attacked.

                   JODY
           I did.

                    KENNY
           I was worried about you.
           Did you hear about the bash?

                    JODY
           Yeah. I think it's really sick.

                    KENNY
           Why?

                    JODY
           Three of our classmates are dead.
           That's not really the occasion
           for a party.

                   KENNY
           Nobody wants to be the fourth.
           Please go with me.

                   JODY
           Did Sharon say no?

                    KENNY
           You know I want to go with you.

                    JODY
           I'm so flattered but I can't.
           I'm grounded.

                    KENNY
            Everyone's grounded. There's a
           killer on the loose.

                    JODY
           No I'm really grounded.
           When I got in late the other night,
           my father was waiting up for me. 

He grabs her passionately.

                    KENNY
           If you don't want to go with me just
           say so. Say 'Kenny, I DON'T WANT TO MAKE
           LOVE TO YOU' but don't use your dad as an
           excuse. I'm so sick of it.

                   JODY
           I'm not using him as an excuse.

OF COURSE SHE IS.

                   KENNY
           Yes you are. You always do.
           It's why we broke up. You always
           hide behind him.
     
                    JODY
           I do not.

                    KENNY
           I feel like I NEED YOU DAD'S
           permission just to kiss you.
           Jody, it's time to assert yourself
           To be a big girl. An individual.
           I'm going to this party tonight.
           Jimmy's my ride. Come over to my
           house after school. We'll go together.

                   JODY
           I have to go home after school.
           I have something really important
           I have to ask my mom.

                 KENNY
           They're not picking me up until six.

                 JODY
           I'll think about it.

                  KENNY
           Yes!

He kisses her full throttle. She's into it. She smiles at him as he darts 
off. She's happy but scared. She's got her guy back, at least for the 
moment.

INT.  SCHOOL

The clock strikes three. The bell rings.

EXT.  SCHOOL

Kids charge out, ready for a memorable evening.

INT.  JODY'S HOUSE

Jody's mother is in the kitchen, preparing dinner, watching TV.

                 REPORTER
                (on TV)
          A series of savage killings has turned
          this small community of Cherry Falls, Ohio
          inside out. In the last two days, three teenagers
          have been killed, a fourth attacked. The killer
          seems to be targeting high school virgins. Here's
          our WWJB reporter Mike Stanton outside the local
          high school with an up to the minute report.

EXT.  HIGH SCHOOL

MIKE STANTON turns around toward the high school to report on the day's 
events but before he can get a word out a young GIRL who has recognized 
him, walks up to him. Her GIRLFRIENDS giggle behind her.

                 GIRL
            Hi.

                 MIKE
            Hi, I'm Mike Stanton.

                 GIRL
            I know.

She grabs him and kisses him. He's shocked. She runs off giggling with her 
friends. A boy walks through in the background and makes a lewd hip 
humping gesture at the TV camera.

INT.  KITCHEN

Jody's mom can't believe what she's seeing on the news.

EXT.  HOUSE

Jody walks in the back door.

INT.  KITCHEN

Her mom flips off the TV AS Jody enters the kitchen.

                  JODY
              Hi mom.

                   MARGE
              Hi princess.

                   JODY
              Mom?

                   MARGE
              Yes?

                  JODY
             I need to ask you something.

                   MARGE
             You can ask me anything.

                  JODY
             Have you ever heard of someone
             named Lisa Sherman?

Mom's cutting hand starts to shake. She pretends that she doesn't know who 
Lisa Sherman is but she obviously does.

                   MARGE
             Lisa Sherman?

                   JODY
             Yeah. Who is she?

                   MARGE
             I don't know. Where did you
             hear that name.

                   JODY
             I overheard daddy mentioning
             her to someone. I he thinks she's the
             killer.

                  MARGE
             What?
     
                  JODY
             That's what he said.

                  MARGE
             Did he say anything else about her?

                   JODY
             No but he got really weird.
             Like I've never seen him act.
             REALLY angry and super uptight.

                   MARGE
                (lying)
             I've never heard of her.
             Maybe something else was on
             his mind.

                   JODY
             No. I think she lived her a
             long time ago. Like twenty-eight
             years ago. When dad was eighteen.

                  MARGE
             Not that I know of.

Jody is suspicious. Jody thinks for a moment, then picks her coat back up.

                  MARGE
             Where are you going?

                   JODY
             The library. I'll be fine.

Jody heads out the door. Her mother goes to the window, very concerned and 
watches her ride away. She picks up the phone.

INT.  POLICE STATION - BRENT'S OFFICE

BRENT is on the phone. His deputy is with him.

                  BRENT
           What's the address?
           Thanks.

He hangs up the phone.

                  DEPUTY
           You found her?

                  BRENT
           There's a Lisa Shermer living just sixty
           miles west of here. Over the Indiana border.
           I'm going.

                 DEPUTY
           We need you here. I can bring her in.

                 BRENT
           No. I'll handle this.

INT. STATION

Brent and the deputy head into the main station area. Brent grabs his gun. 
The DESK SERGEANT is on the phone.

                 DESK SERGEANT
           Sir, we're getting calls from other
           towns. Boys throughout the country have
           heard about what's going on here and they're
           heading our way, apparently, looking for girls.

                 BRENT
           Put a squad car at every entrance to town.

The desk sergeant picks up another call.

                  SERGEANT
           Your wife's on line three.

                 BRENT
           I can't talk to her now.

                  SERGEANT
           There's a problem with Jody.

                 BRENT
           Tell her she has to handle it.

He heads outside.

EXT.  POLICE STATION

The deputy walks Brent to his car.

                 DEPUTY
            As bizarre as it may sound,
            seems someone is planning to
            have a big party tonight.

                 BRENT
            No?

                  DEPUTY
           Should we close down any eruption?

                 BRENT
           Are you sure?

                 DEPUTY
           We're seeing all the signs in town.

                 BRENT
           I like the idea of all the kids in
           one place. If it happens, just keep
           a man outside until you hear from me.
           I'll be back in a couple of hours.

He jumps in his car and speeds away.

EXT.  LIBRARY

The gray old ivy-covered town library. Jody rides up and heads inside.

INT.  LIBRARY

Jody enters the vast library. It's empty. Almost spooky. A seventy year 
old lady, MISS DUNLOP is behind the desk, robotically stamping the back 
flaps of books.

                 MISS DUNLOP
           Hi Jody. What can I DO for you?

                  JODY
           Hi Miss Dunlop. Where do you keep
           the old town papers?

                  MISS DUNLOP
           They're all on microfiche.
           What year are you looking for?

                 JODY
           Twenty eight years ago.

                 MISS DUNLOP
           Follow me.

INT.  LIBRARY - UPSTAIRS

They head up the stairs and into the microfilm room.

                 JODY
           This place is empty.

                MISS DUNLOP
           Everyone's getting ready for the party.

                 JODY
           You heard about that?

                MISS DUNLOP
           Of course. NO ONE EVER SHUTS UP
           IN THE LIBARY. Kids were whispering
           about it all day.

                JODY
           Don't you think it's sick?

                 MISS DUNLOP
           Not at all. In fact, I thought
           about going.

                JODY
           You Miss Dunlop?

She hands Jody the microfiche.

                MISS DUNLOP
           Unfortunately I qualify.
           Think I'm too old?
          
                JODY
              (lying)
           No.

               MISS DUNLOP
           You're sweet. I really wish
           someone had thrown a party          
           like that when I was your age.           
           My life might have been very
           different.

SHE SLOWLY HEADS DOWN THE STAIRS.

cut to:

INT.  LIBRARY - MICROFICHE ROOM

The newspaper headlines from 1970 pass by.

Jody is watching them flash by.

She slows down, then goes back. She's found what she's looking for.

A picture of LISA SHERMAN. It's her yearbook picture. She looks eerily 
identical to the picture that Jody drew. The headline reads 'High School 
Senior Attacked In park'.

Jody hears footsteps coming up the stairs. She looks up. The footsteps  
stop.

The old library is still. She senses that someone is watching her.

                  JODY
             (a little scared)
           Is that you Miss Dunlop?

No answer. She hears a bit of rustling from behind one of the shelves of 
books directly behind her.

A book accidentally drops to the ground.

She realizes that someone is right there, watching her.

                  JODY
           Who's there?

She sees a pair of shoes behind the book shelf but she can't see the face. 
The shoes start around the book shelf, toward her.

Jody leaps to her feet, ready to run. Her mom appears.

                  JODY
           Mom? You were spying on me.

Mom looks at the monitor, at the picture of Lisa Sherman's face.

                  MARGE
           I want you to come home with
           me right now, Jody.

                  JODY
           Who is she?

                 MARGE
           She's nobody you should be concerned
           with.

                  JODY
           Whoever tried to kill me
           was made up to look exactly 
           like this picture of Lisa Sherman,
           clothes and all. I think that
           concerns me.

                 MARGE
           Don't make me order you.

Jody sits back down.

                 JODY
           You going to drag me out and me in my
           room until I go to college?

Marge sits down next to Jody and takes her hand.

                 MARGE
           If I have to. Please
           let me protect you.

Jody is at a crossroads. Jody doesn't know what to do. Her mother hugs 
her, puts her arm around her, and almost lifts her out of her seat. She 
leads her down the stairs, away from the old newspaper.

INT.  LIBRARY

Jody's mom leads her across the vast hallway. They come to the door 
leading out of the library. Jody stops and looks back. She sees the old 
spinster Miss Dunlop, stacking the books.

                  JODY
           Wait.
     
                  MARGE
           What?

                  JODY
             (asserting herself)
           I'm not leaving. I want to
           know why you and dad are
           so freaked out. Three of my
           classmates are dead.

Mom doesn't like this at all.

CUT TO:

EXT.  LIBRARY

A beautiful garden on the edge of the library. The autumn wind is blowing. 
The leaves are at the height of foliage. Jody and her mom are seated on a  
carved stone bench.

                  MARGE
           Years ago, something horrible
           happened in this town. When I
           was still in high school. A girl
           named Elizabeth Sherman was attacked by
           four drunken seniors.

                   JODY
           Attacked how?

                  MARGE
           She was raped. At least that's
           what she claimed.

                  JODY
           You didn't believe her?

                  MARGE
               (confessing)
           No, I believed her. She was in
           pretty bad shape. Inside and out.
           But the boys were never formally
           charged.

                   JODY
           Why not?

                   MARGE
           They were children of our leading
           citizens, stars of the football team.
           And she was  a loner. An angry girl
           that no one really liked. She'd called
           them 'queers'.

                  JODY
           People thought these guys had a
           right to rape her because she called
           them 'queers'?

                  MARGE
           They were proving to her they weren't.
           They were very drunk. Things were different
           back then. You think kids are sexually
           bottled up today....

                  JODY
           And the police did nothing?

                   MARGE
           EVERYONE JUST KIND OF LOOKED THE OTHER WAY.

                   JODY
           How could you?

                   MARGE
            I don't know. We just did. I guess
           I was kind of scared going against the gain.
           Against the whole town.

                   JODY
          The word is Mob.

                   MARGE
           I've regretted it ever since.
           Never run with the herd just because
           they're the herd.

                  JODY
           Who were they?

Marge freezes. She didn't want to be asked that.

                   MARGE
           Who?

                   JODY
           The men. Do any of them still
           live around here?

                  MARGE
           Two men left town right after
           it happened.

                  JODY
           You're not telling me something.

Marge takes a deep breath, unsure what to say.

                  MARGE
            Mr. Sisler was one of them.

                  JODY
                (shocked)
             The principal?

                  MARGE
            Yes.

                  JODY
            Who was the fourth?

Marge is stricken. She looks down.

                   MARGE
            God. It's like everything that was
            ever repressed in this town is suddenly
            bubbling up through the ground.

Jody gets it.

                  JODY
            Dad?

Her mother can't deny it any longer.

                  JODY(CONT'D)
              (horrified)
           THAT'S why he called Mr. Sisler first.
           He was one of them.

                  MARGE
           Not a day has gone by where your     
             father has not torn himself to shreds
           for what happened. We both have...

                  JODY
           NO!

Jody gets up.
                  MARGE
           He dedicated his life to law
           enforcement after...

Jody runs off, very upset.

EXT.  LIBRARY

Jody jumps on her bicycle and speeds off.

EXT.  GARDEN

Marge sits down and stares straight ahead, crushed.

EXT.  INDIANA DIRT ROAD

The rusty old mailbox on the forgotten dirt road reads 'Lisa Sherman'
Brent's police car turns into the driveway.

INT.  CAR

Brent pulls up to the house. he sits and stares for a moment.

EXT.  LISA SHERMAN'S HOUSE

It's a dilapidated old house, uncared for, overgrown, a 'For Sale' sign 
stands crookedly in the front yard.

Brent gets out of the car and heads to the front door, stepping over rusty 
tools and old auto parts.

EXT.  FRONT DOOR

Brent lifts his hand and is about to knock. He can't. He walks around in a 
circle, composing himself, preparing himself to face Lisa Sherman after 
all these years. He draws the gun from his holster and knocks.

No one answers.

He knocks again.

No one answers, again.

A WOMAN, THE CARETAKER, appears from the side of the house.

                  CARETAKER
                Hello?

                  BRENT
                I'm looking for Lisa Sherman.

                  CARETAKER
                She's not here.

                  BRENT
               You know where I can find her?

                  CARETAKER
               St. Michael's.

                  BRENT
               She works at a church?

                  CARETAKER
               She resides there. Out back.
               She died a year and a half ago.

Brent feels terribly guilty about what he did to Lisa Sherman, but also 
terribly relieved that he'll never have to face her. It's been a  long 
time since he's confronted his hidden past. He puts his gun away.

                   BRENT
              Of what?

                  CARETAKER
              A bullet to the right cerebellum.

                   BRENT
              She was murdered?

                  CARETAKER
              No. She ate a pistol for lunch
              one day.

Brent can't help but feel responsible.

                   BRENT
              Can you describe her? How old
              was she?

                    CARETAKER
              I never met the woman. I'm just taking
              care of the place until they sell it.

                   BRENT
              Can you get inside?

                   CARETAKER
              I can.

                   BRENT
             I knew Lisa Sherman long ago.
             It's extremely important that I
             get inside and try to verify that it's the
             same woman who lived here.

                   CARETAKER
             I don't give a fuck what your reasons
             are. You pay me ten dollars, you can go inside
             Otherwise, get a warrant.

He pulls out his wallet.

Cut to:

EXT.  KENNY'S HOUSE

Jody rides up to Kenny's house.

INT.  HOUSE

Kenny sees her from his bedroom window.

INT.  FRONT HALLWAY

Kenny comes tearing downstairs.

EXT.  FRONT DOOR

Kenny, opens the front door, very excited.

                   KENNY
               Jody!
               (he kisses her)
               Yes! You're here.

Jody wipes a tear from her eye. Kenny notices how upset she is.

                  KENNT(CONT'D)
              What's the matter?

Jody bursts into tears. She hugs him. He hugs her back and leads her 
inside.

INT.  HOUSE

An old rundown house. The clutter smells. Whoever lived here had little to 
no self respect. Garbage is piled up in every corner, order is nowhere. 
Brent is repulsed by what he sees. he wasn't expecting such chaos. He 
knows he helped create this mess.

                   BRENT
             Is there a picture of her somewhere?

                   CARETAKER
             No pictures. No mirrors.
             Was she a crazy woman when
             you knew her?

                    BRENT
             (feeling very guilty)
             No.

                    CARETAKER
             Couldn't tell she going to off
             herself, huh?

                    BRENT
             No, you couldn't.

                    CARETAKER
            I've been in a lot of people's
            houses and this one's the creepiest.

                    BRENT
            Really?

                    CARETAKER
            Yeah. You should check downstairs.

                    BRENT
            Why?

                    CARETAKER
           People always keep their secrets in their
           attics or in their basements. All the 
           weirdness in this house took place in the
           basement.

The woman flips on the basement light. There are several locks on the 
door. Brent is very scared of what he's going to find down there.

INT.  BASEMENT

Brent steps down into the basement.

It is a combination prison/bedroom. It looks like it hasn't been cleaned 
in years. Water drips for the ceiling. Rat traps are everywhere. Old 
broken child's TOYS are stacked in one corner below some handcuffs which 
are bolted into the wall above a cot. The cot is small, the mattress 
rotted. Old shit lies dried on the floor piss stains line every wall.

Huge nails and odd iron objects sit in one corner.

Brent walks over to the dresser and looks in it. He pulls out a pair of 
grown man's trousers. He examines them.

                  CARETAKER
           They look like they'd fit you.
           Three bucks.

Brent things for a moment then throws the pants down. He darts back up the 
stairs. The caretaker laughs.

INT.  KENNY'S

Jody and Kenny are in Kenny's bedroom, sitting on his bed.

                   KENNY
            All our parents are weirdoes.
            I think my dad is into hookers.
            I know he lit cats on fire when
            he was a kid.

                   JODY
              (all wound up)
           My dad acts like he's Johnny Fucking
           Perfect and he's really Johnny Fucking
           Rapist.

                   KENNY
             (compassionately)
           I think this is a big part of growing up.
           It's losing your spiritual virginity.
           It's when you finally discover that your
           parents aren't anything they told you they
           were. They're even bigger hypocrites than     
           your friends.

                   JODY
           I can't believe I listened to one word of
           his shit.

                   KENNY
           But if he'd been sent to jail,
           there would be no Jody.

                   JODY
           So I should feel happy that he got
           away with it?

                   KENNY
           I don't know. I kind of am.

Jody, still crying, stares at Kenny for a second then leans in and kisses 
him with everything she's got, Ready for action.

                   KENNY
           Are you coming to the party?

                   JODY
           Let's just start a party right here,
           right fucking now.

Jody quickly takes her own shirt off, rips off his, and pounces on him. 
He's taken aback by her sudden aggressiveness. He has no idea how to 
respond to it.

INT.  TOWN HALL

Brent comes storming out of the hall of records.

INT.  PHONE BOOTH

Frantic dialing. Brent is on the phone.

INT.  PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE

The phone rings. The answering machine picks up.

                   BRENT
                (leaving a message)
           Tom? Lisa Sherman is dead. But you'll
           never believe what I found out. Meet
           me at the Roadhouse on Route nine in a
           half hour. We need to talk in private.

As Brent finishes his message the camera moves across the principal's 
desk, first revealing a few blood drops on a piece of paper and then the 
killer's hand, holding the razor. The killer has been listening to the 
message.

Tom, the principal, is sitting in the corner in  a large puddle of his own 
blood, tied to the radiator. He's barely alive. His tongue has been cut 
out, his foot cut off at the ankle and shoved into his mouth. One eye is 
missing, the other one has been left in only so that Tom can look into the 
killer's face as he's tortured.

The razor blade is lifted off the table.

Tom braces himself, gripping his hands, preparing for more pain.

The camera moves back to the phone as we hear Tom gag and then the killer 
walking out of the room.

INT.  KENNY'S

Jody is all over Kenny. He's really weirded out by her aggressiveness.  
She reaches for his crotch and finds that he's soft. She rolls over, 
embarrassed.

                  JODY
                (worried)
            What's wrong? Am I doing something
            wrong?

                   KENNY
            Just making me feel like a piece
            of meat.

                  JODY
           I'm making you feel like meat?

                  KENNY
           Yeah.

Jody rolls over, a bit pissed off and very confused.

                  JODY
           You break up with me because
           I won't fuck you.

                  KENNY
           That's not why we broke up.

                  JODY
           You flaunt some slut in my face.

                  KENNY
           Sharon's far from a slut.

                   JODY
           And when I finally agree to spread
           my legs, you accuse me of treating
           you like meat.

                  KENNY
           Jody, you're only doing this to
           get back at your dad. It doesn't
           have that much to do with me.

She gets up angry, and starts putting her clothes back on. That was the 
wrong note to play. The truth hurts.

                  KENNY
           Please don't go. Please.
           Stay, We'll just talk. Then
           go to the party.

                  JODY
           This party is sick.

She heads to the door.

                  KENNY
           Jody. Wait.

                  JODY
           What?

                  KENNY
           I'm scared. Three kids are
           dead. I want to go to this
           party.

                  JODY
           Then go to the party. Run
           with the herd Kenny. Just
           don't spew out all that 'be
           an individual, assert yourself'
           crap anymore.

She heads out, very upset.

INT.  DRUG STORE

INSERT- A condom slides across the counter. The register rings it up.

A teenage boy is standing there buying the condom. The camera pulls back 
to reveal another teenage boy behind him, also holding a condom and then 
another and another. All told, the store is completely jam packed with 
over a hundred boys, all standing in line, all buying condoms.

CUT TO:

INT.  BEDROOM

Sandy is getting ready to go to the party, making herself look as hot as 
possible, and she looks hot. There's a knock on the door. She's scared to 
answer it, considering how she's dressed. Her dad comes in and sits on the 
bed. Sandy turns away from and buttons her top shirt button up.

                    DAD
              I know where you're going.

                     SANDY
                  (concerned)
              
              You do?

                     DAD
              Your brother told us.

                    SANDY
              Daddy....

                    DAD
             Shh. I'm not going to tell
             you not to go.

                    SANDY
             You're not?

                   DAD
             No. I couldn't do that.
             I have something for you.

He places something on her dresser, smiles at her, and leaves.

She looks at what he's left. It's a condom.

CUT TO:

EXT.  STREET

Carloads of kids head toward Cherry Falls, howling out the windows, 
guzzling beer.

EXT.   STREET

Police cars screech to a stop, barricading the entrances to town,
preparing for the onslaught.

INT.   CAR

Brent is driving out of the Indiana town when he sees something out the 
window.

EXT.   STREET

It's ST. MICHAELS church. Brent pulls over.

EXT.   GRAVEYARD

Lisa Sherman's headstone. It's a modern one. Her picture is on it. It's 
the same woman as the sketch artist drew.

Brent stares at the headstone, alone in the cemetery, feeling ashamed.

                  BRENT
             Lisa, I'm so sorry.

INT.  SANDY'S LIVING ROOM

Sandy appears at the top of the stairs, decked out, ready for the party. 
Her mom bursts into tears. Sandy heads toward the front door. her father 
walks up to her and hugs her. Her brother Andy, smirks in the b.g.

Mom cries harder.

                  ANDY
             Just think of it like she's having
             a flu shot. Purely preventive.

Cut to:

INT.  HOUSE

A kid raided his parent's liquor cabinet, pouring five different types of 
liquor into a pickle jar.

ANOTHER HOUSE

Another kid raids his parents weed stash, grabbing a handful of buds.

A THIRD HOUSE

A third kid raided his parents medicine cabinet. Lots of barbiturates in 
this house.

MONTAGE - OTHER HOUSES

Kids are climbing out their windows, climbing down trees and sheet ropes, 
trying to get out, sometimes being chased and caught by their parents. One 
kid is locked in his room, another driven far from town. everyone's 
grounded but everyone's going to the party any way.

EXT.  WOODS

Kids from other towns park cars at the edge of town and try to sneak into 
Cherry falls through the woods.

Police try and cut them off.

EXT.   TOWN

Jody pedals quickly down the street. She's going nowhere. She starts to 
cry.

EXT.   ROADHOUSE

Brent pulls into the roadhouse to look for Tom Sisler. As he walks inside 
we notice the killer's Imperial is parked there as well. Brent's in 
trouble.

INT.   CAR

Mark's car pulls up in front of the party house. Sandy squeezes his arm, 
excited. Music blares from the house. They all hop out and head up to the 
bash.

EXT.  HOUSE

All sorts of kids make their way across the front lawn. They are carrying 
pillows, sheets, blankets, anything and everything that will make the wood 
floors more comfortable.

One couple runs towards the front door howling.

Another boy pulls his obviously frightened girlfriend into the house, 
reassuring her that everything will be fine.

Lots of kids are milling around outside because two big football players 
and their dates are guarding the front door. There's a big sign that says 
"Couples only". Lots of hooking up is taking place on the front lawn.

EXT.  NEIGHBOR'S YARD

Two computer nerds are hidden behind a tree, watching the other kids 
arrive. They spot the two homely girls we saw earlier.

                  NERD 1
            There's Jan and Heather.
            Let's grab them quick before
            someone else does.

                NERD 2
            Ok.

                NERD 1
            Hide your laptop here.

                 NERD 2
            No.

                NERD 1
           You can't bring it.

                NERD 2
           I'm not leaving it here.

Nerd 2 heads toward the girls, taking his laptop. Nerd 1 follows, pissed 
off. They walk up near the homely girls and make eye contact. After 
several uncomfortable moments, someone shouts for an upper window.

                GIRL IN WINDOW
           Marisa! Find someone fast.
           Floor space is almost gone.

This only heightens the uncomfortable ness outside. One of the homely 
girls looks at the laptop.

                 NERD 2
            Ever play QUAKE?

                 HOMELY GIRL 2
           What's that?

                 NERD 2
           A computer game.

The four just gravitate toward each other, now 'coupled'. They enter the 
house next to each other, all four terrified, none even acknowledging yet 
that they're all in danger.

INT.  CAR

Ben and Cindy arrive.

                 CINDY
               (finalizing)
            I get all your CDs.

                  BEN
            Not my imports.

                 CINDY
            Ok not your imports. All
            your other CDS and your
            K2 snowboard.

                 BEN
           That's an awful lot for ten
           minutes of beasting?

                 CINDY
           Don't flatter yourself.
           You'll be lucky to last
           ten seconds with me Ben.

She kisses him passionately, and gets out of the car. He follows her, 
smitten, like a puppy dog.

INT.  HOUSE

Kids file through the house, creating floor space, moving furniture, 
piling it high.

A keg of beer flows in the corner.

Rock n' Roll blares from all directions. Everyone's excited.

CUT TO:

EXT. STREET

Jody rides down the street, just pedaling fast, as fast as she can.
She's in her own world, very upset.

A car comes toward the intersection on the other street but doesn't slow 
down, knowing the light is about to change.

A boy in a passing car whistles at Jody, waking her out of her stupor.  
Jody looks up just as the light turns red. She hits her brakes and skids 
into the tail of the oncoming car. She glances off it and goes sliding off 
the road, into a few garbage cans.

The car nicks another car and pulls over.

Across the street, we see that the Killer's IMPERIAL is stopped at the red 
light.

Jody gets up, shaken. He knees and elbows are badly scratched.

The OWNER of the car comes running over to Jody.

                 OWNER
            Are you O.K.?

                  JODY
            I'm ok.

                 CAR OWNER
            Are you sure?

                   JODY
            Yes.

                  LEONARD(O.C.)
           You don't look OK.

Jody turns around. Her teacher Leonard Marliston is there. The killer's 
IMPERIAL is parked behind him. Jody wipes away the tears.

                  JODY
              (starting to cry)
           I am.

                LEONARD
           My house is just a couple of blocks
           away. Why don't you come on over and
           clean those cuts up.

                JODY
           Ok. Should I put my bike in the back
           of your car?

                LEONARD
           Can you just follow me?
           The back is full?

                 JODY
           Sure.

CUT TO:

EXT.  PARTY HOUSE

Kids are still arriving from all over but there's no more room in the 
house so the party starts spilling out into the backyard.

One couple spreads out on the roof.

A cop car has pulled up in front and the deputy is just keeping a watch on 
the house.
          
EXT.  TOWN SQUARE

Kids are starting to gather and hook up in the town square. As the police 
try to break up one gathering, another one starts.

CUT TO:

INT.  CAR

Leonard drives down the road. He smiles into his rear view mirror.

EXT.  STREET

In Leonard's rear view mirror we see Jody pedaling behind him.

A couple of boys lean out of their cars and invite Jody to the go to the 
party. Sirens scream out in the distance.

EXT.  LEONARD'S HOUSE

Leonard pulls into his driveway. Jody pulls in behind. She leans the bike 
on the front porch and they head into the house.

                  LEONARD
            You aren't going to the party?

                  JODY
            You know about that too?

INT.  LEONARD'S HOUSE

Mr. Leonard opens the door to his house. Jody walks in behind him.

     
                  LEONARD
            of COURSE. You're not scared?

                  JODY
            Of course I'm scared.

                  LEONARD
            Then you should go.

                  JODY
            You think I should go to
            the party, Mr. Marliston?

                  LEONARD
            I really do. For your own
            safety.

Jody doesn't know what to make of this. It's not what she expected to hear 
from her teacher.

Leonard goes into the kitchen. Jody sits on the couch and looks around. 
She's immediately sensing that something is off about the place. It's 
certainly not the way she imagined a teacher's house to look. It has all 
sorts of city plans, maps, and drawings on the walls. Years of Cherry 
Falls yearbooks and newspapers are stacked in piles.

He reappears with two beers and a pot filled with soapy water. He hands 
her a beer.

                  JODY
            I just feel so manipulated.
            By everyone. My dad, my boyfriend,
            and now some psychopath I don't
            even know.

SHE TAKES THE BEER, surprised he's giving her alcohol. He kneels down in 
front of her and begins to clean the wound on her leg.

                  LEONARD
            We're all manipulated. From the moment
            we're born. The event that fatalistically shaped
            my life happened before I was even born.

                  JODY
            Really?

                  LEONARD
            Yes. We have no real freedom.
            You of all people should understand
            that. This may sting.

Jody is beginning to feel strange. There's something off kilter about this 
whole encounter.

                  JODY
            Me? Why me?

                  LEONARD
             Because of your father.
            The way what his sins shaped you.

He starts putting a disinfectant on her wound.

                  JODY
            What do you know about my father?

                  LEONARD
            He's a rapist. Like mine.

She grimaces. The disinfectant hurts.

                  JODY
                (a little scared)_
            Your father raped someone?

                  LEONARD
            Lisa Sherman was my mother.
            Do you know who that is?

                   JODY
            Yes.

                  LEONARD
           I was born nine months after she was
           raped. One of the four men who raped
           her is my father. I have no idea which one.

                  JODY
           You're the killed.

                 LEONARD
           Yes that's the whole point. This is
           what I was put on this earth to do.
           Rape the town that raped my mother.
           Steal its pristine innocence like it
           stole hers. I've planned this since I was
           a very little boy. You have no real freedom
           either. Your father has cast a shadow that
           you've never eluded.

Jody gets up and starts backing away from him but he gets up quickly. He's 
not letting her get away.

Jody bolts for the door but she doesn't have time to open it.

Leonard grabs her and throws her across the room.

Jody smashes into a  table. He bends down to pick her up, but she pulls a 
book case over on him, narrowly escaping.

She runs for the back door.

INT.  BACK DOOR

Jody opens the back door and gets halfway out when Leonard runs up to her, 
pulls her away from the door, and slugs her in the face, sending her 
sprawling to the ground. He picks her up and punches her a second time, 
breaking her nose, knocking her half out. He picks her up by the waist and 
carries her to the basement stairs.

INT.  BASEMENT STAIRS

Leonard throws Jody down into the dark basement. She tumbles down the 
stairs, hitting her head on the cold stone floor.

He comes charging down after her, closing the door behind them.

CUT TO:

INT.  PARTY HOUSE

The CD is now skipping. Kids are in every corner, bed , and closet, making 
out. Every square inch of the house is being taken as the party shifts 
into higher gear. It's a sea of sheets and blankets rippling with bodies 
under them. Giggles and moans are heard every second.

INT.  A CLOSET

Sandy and Mark are gently kissing in the closet, still standing up. Mark 
studies Sandy's face for a second, then slowly lifts her dress, sliding 
his hand on to her thighs.

                    MARK
             You're so beautiful.

                   SANDY
            So are you.

                   MARK
            Now don't be nervous.

                   SANDY
            You're the one who's hand is shaking.

Mark smiles, embarrassed. They kiss. They're falling in love.

ECU - ELECTRONIC beeps come off a computer screen as a warrior armed with 
a huge plasma gun fights his way into a dark cave, shooting plasma 
everywhere.

The nerds and the homely girls are in the corner playing the computer 
game, ALL SCARED TO MAKE a move. People around them are shushing them as 
they blow up monster. One guy finally has had it. H gets up, grabs the 
laptop and tosses it out the window. NERD 2 IS PISSED OFF.

                  NERD 2
            Hey! That was a 3k machine.

                  NERD 1
            Told you to hide it.

Homely girl 2 starts to laugh. It was kind of funny. Then they all start 
to laugh, even NERD 2. There's nothing left to do but laugh. Except kiss. 
And that they do.

INT.  BEDROOM

Cindy and Ben are naked under a blanket in the corner.

                  BEN
             One more time.

                  CINDY
                (negotiating)
             I get the imports.

                  BEN
             Ok!

He's all over her. She's into it too.

INT.  BEDROOM

Sharon turns up the heat on Kenny, running her hands across his bare 
chest. Kenny breaks off the kiss, not really into it.

                  SHARON
             You ok?

                  KENNY
            Just thinking about something.

                   SHARON
            What?

                  KENNY
            There's going to be very few
            virgins left in school on Monday.
            It could be really dangerous for them
            if the killer isn't caught.

                 SHARON
            I guess so. Luckily we won't have
            that problem.

She kisses him again. He stops her again, buttons his shirt.

                 SHARON
            What are you doing?

                 KENNY
            I got to go.

                 SHARON
            What?

                 KENNY
            I'm worried about someone.

He puts his clothes on.

                 SHARON
             You can't just leave me here.

                 BOY'S VOICE
            Stay put Sharon. I'll hop on over
            when I'm done here.

                GIRL'S VOICE
            You will not!

Others laugh. Kenny looks around.

                 KENNY
            Jody was right, this party IS sick.

Kenny buttons his shirt and heads out. Sharon is pissed.

CUT TO:

INT.  BASEMENT               

As Jody comes to, she finds herself gagged, tied to a chair in the dark 
basement. She can't see much but she can hear the sounds of water dripping 
and a rat scurrying around. She tips her chair over and falls onto the 
cold floor. She tries to removes her gag by rubbing her head against the 
ground.

EXT.  LEONARD'S HOUSE

Leonard goes to his station wagon and opens the back.

INT.   CAR

A body is hidden under a blanket. Leonard picks it up. It's too heavy.

INT.   BASEMENT

Jody can't undo her gag but she notices a piece of glass under a dresser. 
She turns herself around to grab for it.

She squeezes her hand under the dresser, reaching for the shard.

The door at the top of the stairs opens.

Leonard appears in silhouette carrying the body wrapped in a blanket. He 
throws it down the stairs and turns the lights on.

The basement is almost an exact replication of the basement in his 
mother's house. A cot in the same spot. The dresser as well. The Lisa 
Sherman costume is neatly hung from big metal hooks.

Leonard sits Jody back up.

A little blood drips from Jody's closed hands. She has the shard.

Leonard ties the other body to a chair facing Jody. He starts singing SLY 
AND THE FAMILY STONE.

                  LEONARD
                (singing)
             'It's a family affair,
             It's a family affair.'

He undoes the blanket revealing the battered but still breathing body of 
Jody's dad. Brent's bleeding from the forehead, nose, and mouth. He's 
badly beaten up.

Jody gags on her gag. Her dad looks her in the eye.

                   LEONARD
             Well, we may be family
             One in four chance.

Leonard picks up his razor and starts towards Jody.

                   LEONARD
             Sheriff Brent, you will be the
             second of the four horsemen of
             the apocalypse to die. But first you
             will watch as I slice up your little
             girl.

Brent starts frantically shaking no, trying to escape as Leonard kneels in 
front of Jody and runs his hands up under her dress, exposing her shaved, 
nubile leg. The 'V' is still fresh in her calf.

Leonard starts to cut an 'I' next to it.

Jody's face grimaces in pain. Blood drips to the ground. Her leg starts to 
shake.          

                    LEONARD
           You're shaking too much.
           If you don't stop shaking Jody,
           I'll have to kill before I carve.
           We wouldn't want that.

Jody concentrates on trying to show no pain, not to flinch. It's tough. 
Her father watches, 
horrified.

Cut to:

EXT.  STREET

Kenny runs down the street, heading toward Jody's house. He stops to catch 
his breath for a second.
He notices something.

EXT.  LEONARD'S

Jody's bicycle is still leaning against Leonard's porch.

EXT.  STREET

Kenny crosses the street to Leonard's house and inspects the bicycle. It's 
hers.

INT.  BASEMENT

Leonard continues to work on Jody's bare leg, starting the 'R'. Jody and 
her father stare at each other, helplessly.

                  LEONARD
           My mother said, after you and your
           three droogs raped her Brent, that people
           in town refused to let her use their bathrooms.
           Is that true? Did people really call her a slut
           and tell her 'you can't shit here'? She used to
           snarl that at me. That's all she really did, at least
           in my direction, was snarl. When she looked at me, 
           she saw only you.

Jody gags in pain. Brent looks away.

                   LEONARD
            Open your eyes Brent. Watch. Or
            will I cause her much more pain.

Brent opens his eyes. More blood drips. Jody starts to lose consciousness, 
barely able to stand it 
anymore. The doorbell rings. Leonard looks up, concerned.

EXT.  HOUSE

Kenny rings it again. No one answers.

He walks over to the window and looks through a crack underneath the 
curtains.

INT.  HOUSE

Kenny's POV - Jody's coat and purse are still on the couch.

EXT.  HOUSE

Kenny senses that something is really off. He rings again but no one 
answers.  Worried, he pops the screen. It's breaking and entering time.

INT.  LIVING ROOM

Kenny climbs into the living room and looks around.

                    KENNY
              Hello? Jody?

INT.   BASEMENT

Leonard hears Kenny. He can't ignore him any longer.

                     LEONARD
             Who the fuck is breaking into my house?

Leonard checks Jody's and Brent's ropes are tight, then heads up the 
stairs. As soon as he disappears, Jody wriggles toward her father and 
starts cutting his ropes with the shard of glass.

INT.    HOUSE

Leonard comes out of the basement and peers into the living room.

INT.    LIVING ROOM

Leonard sees Kenny opening Jody's purse, checking it out.

Leonard keeps the razor hidden behind his back.

                       LEONARD
              My wallet's on the mantle
              when you've finished your rifling,
              Kenny.

Kenny looks up, startled.

                       KENNY
                   (nervously)
              Oh, hey Mr. Marliston. W-What's Jody's
              bike doing on your front porch?

                       LEONARD
             That all depends Kenny. Depends on why
             the FUCK you've broken into your history
             teacher's house?

                      KENNY
            Alright, Marliston, I know she's here.
            
                       LEONARD
            What are you talking about? No one here
            but us chickens.

INT.  BASEMENT 

Jody cuts through her dad's ropes. Her dad immediately takes Jody's gag 
off.

INT.  LIVING ROOM

Kenny heads out the door.

                      JODY(O.C.)
             Help!

Kenny hears the cry and turns around.

                      KENNY
             That was Jody!

Leonard says nothing. He just stares at Kenny.

                      JODY(O.C.)
             Somebody help!

Kenny heads toward the basement door to investigate. Brent starts kicking 
on the other side of the locked door.

                      KENNY
              Jody?!

Leonard moves towards Kenny with the razor. Kenny turns just in time.  He 
grabs Leonard's arm as Leonard tries to slit his throat. They struggle.

The door lock starts to shake as Brent continues to kick the door open 
from the other side.

Leonard picks up a  lamp with his free hand and smashes Kenny across the 
head. Kenny falls to the ground.

The door pops open. Brent charges out. Leonard turns to him and slashes 
him across the chest as Brent sprays red paint in Leonard's eyes. Leonard 
screams, and lunges at Brent.

Brent grabs Leonard. Using every ounce of energy he has, he throws Leonard 
down the basement stairs.

Leonard grabs Brent as he tumbles down the stairs. The two roll to the 
bottom, smashing their heads along the way. As they come to a stop, Brent 
smashes his head hard on the floor. Leonard ends up on top of him. He 
raises the razor and slits Brent across the face.

                    BRENT
               Jody run!

Jody crawls up the stairs, dragging her bad leg.

Instinctually, Brent hangs on to Leonard, as Leonard tries to get to Jody. 
Leonard slashes Brent across the face again.

                      JODY
               No!

                      BRENT
                   (dying)
              Run!

Jody crawls to the top of the stairs.  Leonard does everything he can to 
get away from Brent but Brent hangs on.  Jody watches, horrified, at the 
top of the stair. Kenny appears at the top of the stairs and pulls Jody 
away from the gruesome sight as Leonard continues to slash Brent's body 
open. Brent rolls over, a bloody mess.

INT.  TOP OF STAIRS

Kenny slams the door shut as Leonard charges up the stairs. Kenny holds 
the door shut with all his might.

                    JODY
               My dad's down there!

                     KENNY
              He's dead! We've got to
              get the fuck out of here!

Kenny pushes a dresser in front of it, trapping Leonard.

                     JODY
              I can't walk. I think he cut right
              through a tendon.

Leonard starts chopping through the door with an axe.

Kenny helps Jody out the front door.

EXT.  HOUSE

Jody and Kenny limp out of the house. Kenny grabs Jody's bike.

                     KENNY
               Climb on.

INT.  BACK PANTRY

Leonard breaks through the door.

INT.  KITCHEN

Leonard runs into the kitchen and looks out the window.

EXT.  HOUSE

Kenny and Jody are peddling away down the driveway.

EXT.  BACK DOOR

Leonard bursts out of the house and jumps into his car.

INT.  CAR

Leonard starts the car.

EXT.  HOUSE

The car squeals out of the driveway, rims sparking wildly.

EXT.  SUBURBAN STREET

Kenny frantically pedals the bike up the pristine suburban street. Jody 
hangs on for dear life.

                  JODY
             Go to the police station!

                  KENNY
             Deputy Webber's at the party.
             It's only three blocks away.

Leonard's car squeals around the corner behind them.

                   JODY
              Fuck! It's him.

INT.  CAR

Leonard steps on the gas.

EXT.  STREET

Kenny peddles as fast as he can, going up onto the sidewalk but that 
doesn't stop Leonard. He comes screeching up on the sidewalk right behind 
Kenny, ready to run him over.

Kenny tears up onto a lawn, Leonard follows him, grass spewing up 
everywhere.

Kenny cuts hard between two trees and back onto the street. He heads onto 
the other sidewalk. LEONARD remains in pursuit, knocking into several 
cars, flattening several fences, and mutilating a cat along the way.

Leonard gains on them as they zigzag up and down the pristine street, 
destroying it.

Leonard pulls up right behind them. He hits the gas. Kenny has to turn 
hard to avoid getting hit.

Kenny can't hold the bike upright and it slides out from under them.

EXT.  BACKYARD

Kenny and Jody tumble up someone's driveway, smashing into their fence.

EXT.  STREET

Leonard can't hold the car straight and it 360s across several lawns. 
Finally stopping, smashing into a parked car.

EXT.   BACKYARD

Kenny helps Jody to her feet.

BACK OF HOUSE

The GERMAN SHEPARD that lives in the house comes charging out of the dog 
door towards them, barking and snarling.

                      KENNY
                 Shit.

Kenny helps Jody over the fence, then leaps up on it just as the German 
Shepard snaps at
him.

He jumps down on the other side, safe.

The German Shepard smells something else and tears away.

EXT.  FRONT OF HOUSE

Leonard gets out of his car and takes a step toward the house when the 
German Shepard comes charging out the open fence.  Leonard screams. The 
dog pounces on him, starts humping his leg. Leonard rolls his eyes. The 
dog thrusts away.

CLOSE ON THE RAZOR. Leonard raises the razor, contemplates, then rolls his 
eyes. He pushes the dog off of him.  It lets out a panted growl, almost 
like it's saying 'going so soon lover boy?' Leonard hops back in his car, 
speeds off down the street. The dog barks wildly up at the night sky. Talk 
about being left with a hard-on.

EXT.  PARTY HOUSE

The house is dark. The lights are all out.

EXT.   ROAD

The deputy checks his watch. A policeman comes running up.

                     POLICEMAN
                 We just found another body.

                     DEPUTY
                Who's?

                     POLICEMAN
                Tom Sisler. He was murdered at school.
                 Two kids went into his office to fuck and
                they found him, with his tongue cut out and
                his foot jammed into his mouth. Killer also
                chopped off his pecker and stuffed it in his
                pencil holder.

                    DEPUTY
                 Jesus. Any word from Brent?

                     POLICEMAN
               Nope. The switchboard is lightning up downtown.
                Kids from other towns are starting to congregate
                in the parks and at the high school. It's turning
               into WOODSTOCK except there's no concert.

                    DEPUTY
               Call Brent on the horn. See where he is. What
                he wants us to do. I'll head over to the school.

                    POLICEMAN
               Ok.

The deputy jumps into his car.

                     DEPUTY
                Don't leave this party until you
                hear from me.

The policeman looks up at the house.

                     POLICEMAN
               But I shouldn't shut it down?

                     DEPUTY
               No. Hell, it's the quietest goddamn
               party I've ever seen.

EXT.  SUBURBAN STREET

Jody and Kenny climb over a fence into another backyard. Jody is limping 
badly.
Kenny is helping her along.

                     JODY
               Thanks for coming back for me.

                     KENNY
               I love you.

She kisses him. He kisses her back.

INT.   CAR

Leonard has pulled over down the street from the party.

EXT.   STREET

Kenny and Jody appear from a backyard, across the street from the party.

INT.   POLICE CAR

The officer sits in his car, trying to call Brent.

                      OFFICER
                 Brent?
                     (no answer)
                 Come in Brent.

There's a knock at the car window. The officer looks up, startled.

EXT.   CAR

Leonard is looking in the window.

INT.   CAR

The officer rolls down the window.

                       OFFICER
                 Jesus Christ had balls in his soup,
                 Marliston, what'd you do, eat out a
                 pizza or something? What the fuck 
                 happened to your face?

                       LEONARD
                 Hey, look, Elvis.

                       OFFICER
                 Where?

                       LEONARD
                 You really are a god damn rube.

Leonard slashes the officer's throat open in one savage swoop. He slumps 
over the steering wheel, throat cut beyond repair, blood squirting 
everywhere.

                       LEONARD
                     (humming)
                'Family affair. Oh yes it's a 
                 family affair'.

EXT.  PARTY

Jody and Kenny limp up to the party. There are no police outside.

                        JODY
                 Where are the police?

Jody looks down the road, lets out a blood curdling scream. LEONARD is 
slowly limping towards the house, gore dripping razor in hands.
     
                        JODY
                 Oh GOD IT'S HIM!

                        KENNY
                 Quick! In the house. He
                 won't look for us in there.

Kenny and Jody limp toward the front door.

INT.  PARTY HOUSE

Kenny and Jody limp through the front door. Couples are everywhere. 
There's no room
to even walk.

The party has reached it's 'climax'.

We see the faces of teenage boys and girls as they lose their virginity. 
They run the gamut of emotions. Some are terrified, some are ecstatic. 
Some are concentrating as hard as they've ever concentrated, some are 
closing their eyes, trying to fade out.

We see Sandy, Mark, Cindy, and Ben all having a blast. Sharon has managed 
to find a new partner and the nerds are riding the homely girls. It's 
orgiastic.

Kenny and Jody can only marvel at it as they limp through the maze of 
bodies looking for a place to hide.

KENNY GRABS  a sheet off the ground and carries Jody up the stairs.

INT.  MASTER BEDROOM

Kenny carries Jody into the huge bedroom.

A couple of kids look up as the door opens. There must be over a 100 
teenagers in the room, adjoining bathroom, and closets. The room is just a 
sea of kids humping two deep, under blankets.

                     KID ON FLOOR
                 There's no room in here.
     
                     ANOTHER KID
                 Yeah. Get lost we're packed.

Kenny pays no attention to them. He shoves his way into a corner,  pissing 
off everyone on the way, stepping on a few hands and other appendages. He 
puts Jody down and starts unbuttoning her shirt.

                      JODY
                    (whispering)
                 What are you doing?

                      KENNY
                 Pretend we're just another couple.

He pulls her under the sheet.

INT.  PARTY - DOWNSTAIRS

Leonard comes in the front door, his razor in hand, the policeman's blood 
still dripping from it. He looks around, wondering if they're here.

No one seems to notice Leonard as he hunts for Jody and Kenny, walking 
through the sea of bodies, dripping blood on the backs of a couple of 
kids. A serial killer at a fuckfest.  Leonard smiles at the sight of all 
the teenagers copulating.

INT.  MASTER BEDROOM

Kenny and Jody curl up next to each other. Kenny kisses her. She kisses 
him back.

They're into each other. They can't keep their hands off each other. They 
start to really make out.

INT.   PARTY DOWNSTAIRS BEDROOM

Leonard moves into one of the bedrooms. He switches the lights on.

The kids look up pissed off. There's not an inch of floor space.

                     BOY
                Hey! Turn that off.

                     GIRL
                Mr. Marliston?!

                     LEONARD
                Hi Samantha. Excuse me.

He steps over a thrusting hairy ass, surveys the room.  No Kenny. No Jody.

                     GIRL
                    (freaked)
                What are you doing here?!

The girl breaks into orgasm before she can barely finish the sentence. 
Leonard
flips the lights off and heads out of the room. Through out the entire 
proceedings, everyone was fucking like no one entered the room. 
Homeostasis remains stable.

INT.  PARTY STAIRCASE

Leonard heads up the stairs, still looking for Kenny and Jody. A couple of 
kids
on the staircase notice him. He almost trips on one. They start whispering 
to each other, freaked out that a teacher is there. More and more kids 
start looking up The party has definitely been disturbed.

INT.   MASTER BEDROOM

Jody hears the disturbance. She stops Kenny and listens.

INT.   BEDROOM

Leonard checks another bedroom. He flips the lights on. No Jody, no Kenny. 
He leaves. More and more kids notice him.

INT.   MASTER BEDROOM

Jody and Kenny know he's close. Leonard appears in the doorway.

                      KENNY
                    (whispering)
                  It's him.

Leonard accidentally steps on a boy's hand as he enters the room. The boy, 
JIMMY, is pissed off.  He looks up and realizes who it is.

                      LEONARD
                 Pay no attention to me.

                      JIMMY
                 What are you doing here?

                      BOY ACROSS THE ROOM
                 He's looking to get laid.

                      JIMMY'S GIRLFRIEND
                Mr. Marliston?

She grabs her clothes, embarrassed. Jimmy gets up. He's very drunk. Kenny 
and Jody peek out from under their sheet.

                       JIMMY
                 You fucked me up!

                       LEONARD
                 What?

                       JIMMY
                 You gave me a 'D'.

                       LEONARD
                 I'm sure you should have failed.

                       JIMMY
                 I was grounded for two fucking
                 months because of you!

Jody knows her friend is in danger.

                       JODY
                 Jimmy leave him alone! He's
                 imbalanced.

Leonard sees Jody. He starts toward her but Jimmy stupidly jumps in his 
way.

                      LEONARD
                 Please get out of my way
                 or I'll have to hurt you.

                      JIMMY
                 I knew you were a pervert.
                 Always wearing those fucking doofy     
                 glasses, and driving a station wagon.

                      JODY
                 He's dangerous Jimmy!

                      JIMMY
                 So am I! I'm gonna rip your cock off
                  Marliston!

                      LEONARD
                 Touché'

Leonard winds back, slashes at Jimmy, lopping off his dick. Blood flies 
up, splatters across Jimmy's face. Jimmy screams. Leonard slashes open his 
neck. Blood splatters everywhere, on kid's backs, faces, butts.

His girlfriend screams as Jimmy falls to the ground, dying.

Leonard begins to panic. So do the kids. Leonard sees Jody across the room 
and starts toward her as the other kids in the room rise to their feet and 
stampede the fuck out of dodge like a herd of frightened elephants.

INT.  DIFFERENT BEDROOM

Kids in other rooms hear the commotion and break their embraces.

                    BOY(O.C.)
                Run! Mr. Marliston's here!
                And he's horny!

Panic sweeps through the whole party. Everyone wants out.

INT.  BEDROOM

Leonard can't get to Jody because too many kids are trying to get out the 
bedroom door, pushing toward it, sweeping him up in their flow. It has 
turned quickly into chaos with a teenage logjam at the door.

Leonard keeps his eyes pinned on Jody across the room, through the bodies. 
He can't make headway so he raises the razor to slash way to her. Jody 
sees him raise the razor.

                     JODY
                 No!

Leonard starts slashing his way toward Jody. He slashes a girl across the 
stomach, a boy across the face, a  girl across the breasts. It's a 
bloodbath, everyone's screaming.

KIDS' bodies fall to the ground, tripping people, creating even more 
chaos.

Leonard loses his balance and is pushed to the ground as kids stampede 
over him.

INT.  MASTER BEDROOM

Jody and Kenny try to make it to the door.

Leonard tries to get up but he can't. He starts crawling toward Jody, 
slashing the legs of a couple of kids who are in his way, sending them to 
the ground. One kid does a back flip through a glass coffee table, 
exploding it, sending a shard of glass out his throat. Blood sprays across 
the ceiling like a lawn sprinkler.

Through the sea of legs, Leonard sees Jody's leg, the 'VIR' still freshly 
carved. He slashes his way towards Jody.

EXT.   HOUSE

Half naked kids come streaming out of the house, it's a bizarre sight. 
Some of them stop and scream, noticing the deputy (his body has been hung 
upside down from a telephone pole, and disemboweled). The house is almost 
bursting as kids climb out the windows and appear from the back.

INT.   STAIRWELL

Too many kids are trying to get out at one. The staircase and all the 
hallways start totally backed up but all the kids keep pushing forward. 
Something's got to give.

INT.   BEDROOM

Leonard keeps crawling toward Jody, getting closer and closer. He 
scrunches over Jimmy's severed penis, staining his khakis with gore.

                      LEONARD
                 Come on! These are eighty dollar
                 INDEPENDENT khakis! Limited Edition!     
                 God damn it!

INT.   STAIRWELL

The pushing continues. There's nowhere to go. A boy gets pushed over the 
balcony, falling to the ground below.

INT.   BEDROOM

Leonard is just a few feet from Jody's leg.

Jody and Kenny push closer to the door.

Leonard reaches for Jody's leg. He can't quite grab it.

Kenny and Jody reach the door. They're almost out. Leonard lungs and grabs
Jody's leg.

Jody screams out in pain, falls into the crowd.

                      JODY
                   Kenny!

Kenny tries to grab for her but he can't reach her. The force of the mob 
pushes him out the door, through the vortex.

INT.  UPSTAIRS

Kids jam the staircase. There's too many trying to get down at once. 
Everyone's
still pushing. The kids on the staircase can't keep their position and 
start falling forward, pushing harder.

INT.  BEDROOM

Leonard keeps hold of Jody's leg and pulls her toward him.

EXT.  BALCONEY

Kenny tries to get back to Jody but there's no way he can make headway 
back into that room.

                       KENNY
                    Jody?!

The staircase is now jammed with people, starts to buckle.

The banister breaks. Kids start falling off the balcony and staircase, 
onto kids below, CRACKING SKULLS, breaking bones.

INT.   DOWNSTAIRS

Lamps smash to the ground. Tables are trampled. Basically, the entire 
inside of the house is destroyed in the stampede which puts something out 
of fucking JUMANJI to shame.

INT.   BEDROOM

Leonard gets hold of Jody's waist and pulls her towards him, razor ready.

INT.   UPSTAIRS CORRIDOR

Everyone gives one final push out. Kenny is swept on to the staircase. It 
can't take the pressure and finally cracks.

Kids tumble on top of each other falling to the floor below as the 
staircase splinters. Hurt kids are everywhere as more and more get pushed 
over the edge. It's a disaster. Broken boned teenagers litter the floor 
like it were a battlefield.

Kenny manages to grab hold of the second floor as kids fall past him.

The whole house begins to buckle.

INT.   BEDROOM

The room empties as the kids push out. Leonard pulls Jody up next to him 
and puts the razor to her neck. He draws the first spot of blood.

                      JODY
                Please! You wouldn't kill your
                sister, would you?

                     LEONARD
                You think you're my sister?

INT.   STAIRCASE

Kenny manages to pull himself back up to the second floor.

INT.   BEDROOM

Jody turns to look at LEONARD as Kenny appears in the doorway.

                      JODY
                 We have the same color eyes.

He looks into her eyes.

                      LEONARD
                 You're right. We do.

Leonard stares at Jody for a moment, relaxing his grip, giving Kenny just 
the break he needs to dive for Leonard's arm, surprising him, knocking him 
over. They struggle for the razor but Leonard overpowers him and grabs it, 
cutting his own hand. He turns and slices Kenny down the side, cutting him 
deep.

Kenny fights off the pain and leaps on Leonard's back, grabbing his arm 
around the neck.

Leonard stands up and twirls around, trying to knock Kenny off his back, 
smashing him into walls.

Kenny screams in pain, but doesn't let go, pulling at Leonard's face and 
throat.

Leonard spins faster.

JODY struggles to her feet, holding her neck, still losing a little blood. 
Kenny's grips start to slip as Leonard reaches back, to slice him across 
the face and neck.

LEONARD, backs up towards the window, slips over a dildo. He screams, 
loses his grip on Kenny, goes crashing out the second story window.

EXT.  HOUSE

Leonard crashes to the ground below, landing on his back on the front 
steps.

INT.  BEDROOM

Jody looks out after him. He looks up to her. Their eyes meet.

EXT.  HOUSE

KIDS start circling Leonard.

Leonard gets to his knees, still holding the razor. They start taunting 
him.

                    BOY 1
                It's the freak!

The kids inch closer to Leonard.
          
                    GIRL 1
                He's still got the blade!

One kid kicks him. Leonard slashes at the kid, but misses. Another boy 
kicks the knife out of his hands. A third picks it up.

                    BOY 3
                Come on! It's fuck him up time!

One boy kicks Leonard in the face. Another kicks him in the ribs, another 
in the balls. Leonard tries to fight back for a second but slowly they all 
descend on him, taking turns kicking and beating the ever living shit out 
of him. It's a feeding frenzy.  He disappears under the angry mob of 
teenagers.

INT.  BEDROOM

Jody helps Kenny to his feet.

                     KENNY
                Come on. Lets get out of here.

EXT.  FRONT YARD

Police cars screech to a stop out front. The kids are all disappearing off 
down the street.

JODY AND KENNY emerge out the front door, look down at LEONARD, barely 
alive, lying at bloody mess at the base of the steps.
     
                      LEONARD
                J-Jody. P-please help me.
                Please.

Leonard spits up blood. Jody squeals. Kenny covers her eyes.

CLOSE on the BALCONY overhead. The railing breaks off and the balcony 
comes crashing down, falling on Leonard, killing him. Jody embraces Kenny 
tightly.

                      KENNY
                It's all over now.

dissolve to:

EXT.  AVON LAKE CEMETERY

Cemetery- Brent's coffin is in a grave. People are leaving the funeral.

Jody is with her Mom. They are the last ones there. They watch as the 
workers start to throw dirt on the coffin.

Jody takes her mom's hand in her own. They're close again.

Dissolve to:

INT.  JODY'S BEDROOM -  A MONTH LATER

It's night. Jody is asleep.

EXT.  BEDROOM

Someone is in the shadows outside, climbing up to her bedroom window.

INT.  BEDROOM

Intruder's POV - Through the window, Jody is sound asleep in her bed, 
vulnerable.

The window opens. Someone steps in and moves quietly over to the edge of 
the bed. She wakes, startled. She looks up. IT'S KENNY.

                     KENNY
                  (smiling)
               I'm all out of patience.

He climbs in her bed and takes her. She lets him. She's into it.

A pair of eyes peer through the slates of Jody's closet door. Someone is 
hidden in her closet.

KILLER'S POV - Jody and Kenny are now in the middle of making love for the 
first time. It's getting hot.

                     JODY
               Oh God, this is the way it
               should be.

The closet door opens. The real LISA SHERMAN is there. Maybe she wasn't 
dead after all!

She starts toward Jody, raising a huge butcher knife over her head.

Jody sees her and screams.

The knife comes down toward the center of Kenny's back.

His face contorts as the knife enters his body. Jody screams as he coughs 
up blood all over her breasts.

He looks helplessly at Jody, dying as the knife comes down again.

But now it's her father who's doing the stabbing!

INT.  JODY'S BEDROOM 

Jody wakes up from her dream, startled and shaken. She looks next to 
herself in bed. Kenny is lying there asleep, smiling, probably dreaming of 
her. The window is open. He must have climbed in.

There is a little red spot on the sheet next to her.

She cuddles up next to him as the sun starts to rise outside.

Dissolve to:

EXT.  CHERRY FALLS

The entrance to the town. The hanging sign reads 'Entering Cherry Falls, 
Ohio'.

The beautiful town is now peaceful again. The crickets are chirping, the 
robins begin cooing. Suddenly a window comes up and the hanging sign 
begins to sway back and forth, almost on its own.

CUT TO BLACK

THE END
