

<b><!--
</b>if (window!= top)
top.location.href=location.href
<b>// -->
</b>
The Crying Game


The Crying Game


FADE IN:

EXT. CARNIVAL - DAY

A loudspeaker playing Percy Sledge's "When a Man Loves a
Woman," as we see a carnival in the distance - with a Ferris
Wheel turning round and round.

A black man is by a stall. On his arm is an Irish girl with
blond hair. The black man is drunk, and is tossing rings
around a bowling pin.

                       JODY
            And that's cricket, hon.

An attendant hands him the teddy bear. It looks ridiculous in
his huge hands. He gives it to the girl.

                       JODY
            You want it?

                       GIRL
            Sure.

                       JODY
            Doesn't matter if you don't.

He puts his arm around her and drags her on.

                       JODY
            Jody won't be offended. Jody's never
            offended. What'd you say your name was?

                       GIRL
            Jude.

                       JODY
            Jude. Suits you, Jude.

                       JUDE
            The teddy bear?

                       JODY
            No, fuck the bear. The name. Jude. And
            it's June. Jude in June.

He comes to a small canvas tent with a sign on it - TOILET.



                                                               2.



                        JODY
          Gotta piss, Jude.

He holds her hand.

                        JODY
          Don't run off, Jude.

                        JUDE
          You don't know me, do you?

Jody walks inside the canvas flap and vanishes from sight. We
can still see his hand, holding Jude's. She leans against the
canvas, looking bored.

                        JODY
              (inside)
          What if I did?

                        JUDE
          You'd know I wouldn't run off.

She stands there, listening to the sound of him urinate. Her
eyes flick around the carnival. They settle on a tall dark-
haired man in a dark jacket. He nods.

                        JODY
          Never pissed holding a girl's hand, Jude.

                        JUDE
          You didn't?

                        JODY
          And you know what?

                        JUDE
          Tell me, Jody

He staggers out, buttoning up.

                        JODY
          It's nice.

He goes to kiss her. She turns her head away.

                        JUDE
          Not here.

                        JODY
          Who gives a fuck.

                        JUDE
          You never know.



                                                               3.



She pulls him over toward the water.

                       JODY
             I never know nothing.

                       JUDE
             People. They could be looking.

Jody follows her, as she walks backward, drawing him on. He
moves his hips to a song as Jude leads him over the beach,
under a train trestle.

                       JUDE
             Come and get me, soldier --

                       JODY
             Whatever you say, Jude...

He sinks down on his knees toward her. She wraps her arms
around his neck and kisses him. Jody writhes on top of her,
fumbling with his belt. Jude cocks one eye upward. A shadow
falls across them.

CLOSE ON JODY, kissing her. A gun is put to his head. He
turns around, drunkenly.

                       JODY
             What the fuck --

The gun whacks him across the cheek and he falls sideways.

Jude scrambles to her feet and darts like an animal through a
field.

Jody feels his cheek. He can see her blond head vanishing
among the fields. He looks up and sees a group of men around
him. The tallest of them, Fergus, cocks the gun.

INT. CAR - DAY

A mini, driving down a country road. Two men in the front,
three in the back.

On the floor of the car Jody lies, with three pairs of feet
on top of him, a black bag over his head and the barrel of a
gun dangling close to his face. Fergus holds the gun. He is
smoking a cigarette. His movements are slow and somewhat
innocent.

                       FERGUS
             So what's your name, soldier?



                                                               4.



                       JODY
          Fuck you.

                       FERGUS
          Yeah.

EXT. SMALL FARMHOUSE - EVENING.

INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Jody pulled through and tied to a chair. Maguire, a small
lean man, talks to him through the hood.

                       MAGUIRE
          The situation is simple. You're being
          held hostage by the Irish Republican
          Army. They've got one of our senior
          members under interrogation in
          Castleraigh. We've informed them that if
          they don't release him within three days,
          you'll be shot. You'll be treated as our
          guest until further developments. Have
          you anything to say?

Jody is motionless under the black hood.

                       FERGUS
          Give him a cup of tea.

                       MAGUIRE
          Do you want a cup of tea?

He still says nothing.

                                                       DISSOLVE.

All the men are drinking tea. The blond woman comes in with a
plate and some food on it.

                       FERGUS
          See does he want some.

                       JUDE
          Do you want some food?

Jody sits as still as a grave, saying nothing.

                                                       DISSOLVE.

Late at night -- it is dark. The men are sleeping. Fergus is
sitting by a chair, gun in his hand, watching the prisoner.
Jude comes in, with a flashlight.



                                                               5.



                    FERGUS
          Hey -- what's he like?

                    JUDE
          Horny bastard.

                    FERGUS
          Did you give him it?

                    JUDE
          There are certain things I wouldn't do
          for my country.

                    FERGUS
          Have a look at him.

                    JUDE
          Can't.

                    FERGUS
          Poke him or something. See if he's still
          alive.

                    JUDE
          He's all right.

                    FERGUS
          Hasn't moved for twelve hours. Go on.
          Have a heart.

She moves over to him. She prods him in the legs with her
foot. He doesn't move. Then she lifts the hood ever so
slightly, to peer inside. Suddenly the man moves like
lightning, jerking his head down so the hood comes off,
throwing his body, tied to the chair, over Jude.

                    JODY
          You fucking bitch -- you fucking whore --

He pins her to the ground, his body bent with the chair. He
writhes on top of her in a grotesque parody of love. She is
screaming and the room is alive, each man awake, grabbing
guns, screaming.

                    MAGUIRE
          Turn the fucking thing off --

EXT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus follows Jude out a back door, holding her by the arm.

                    FERGUS
          You all right?



                                                               6.



                        JUDE
          Fucking animal.

She takes in huge gobs of air.

                        FERGUS
          You don't know that.

                        JUDE
          Fucking do. I had him all over me.

He touches her face.

                        FERGUS
          Tough work, that.

                        JUDE
          Someone's got to do it.

She rubs her hand on his chest.

                        JUDE
          Nah, it was a breeze. Just thought of
          you.

She sidles closer, coming on to him.

                        JUDE
          And you know what, Fergus? One of you
          made me want it...

She puts her lips to his neck.

                        FERGUS
          Which one?

She doesn't answer. They embrace.

EXT. FARMHOUSE - MORNING.

A hot summer's day. There are tall hedges all around the
house. Fergus leads Jody, still bound and hooded, over toward
a greenhouse.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Dusty tomato plants and vines everywhere. Broken glass. The
sun pouring through. Fergus leads Jody over to a wrought iron
chair and sits him in it. He sits opposite, gun on his lap.
Fergus takes some sandwiches out of a brown paper bag. He
holds one out toward him.



                                                               7.



                     FERGUS
           Eat something, would you?

                     JODY
           Can't.

                     FERGUS
           What do you mean you can't?

                     JODY
           Can't eat through a canvas bag.

Fergus walks over to him, lifts the hood up so his mouth is
revealed, and pushes the sandwich toward his lips. Jody eats,
slowly.

                     JODY
           This is a farce, man.

                     FERGUS
           How is it a farce?

                     JODY
           I seen your fucking face.

                     FERGUS
           So, what do I look like?

                     JODY
           You're the one about five ten with the
           killer smile and the baby face.

                     FERGUS
           Am I?

                     JODY
           Yeah. And the brown eyes.

Fergus pushes the last crumbs of the sandwich toward Jody's
mouth.

                     JODY
           You're the handsome one.

Jody eats the last bits.

                     JODY
           Thank you, handsome.

                     FERGUS
           My pleasure.



                                                               8.



EXT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

Jude makes her way from the door toward the greenhouse. She
is carrying a pot of tea and two cups.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

It is sweltering now in the greenhouse. CLOSE ON JODY'S
COWLED HEAD. The hood is drenched with sweat.

                        JODY
          I can't fucking breathe, man. Be a
          Christian, will you?

Jude comes into view.

                        JODY
          Tell him to take the hood off, honey...

Jude says nothing. Lays the tea on the ground.

                        FERGUS
          How did you know it was her?

                        JODY
          I can smell her perfume.

Jude pours out the tea.

                        JUDE
          See, if we took the hood off, we'd have
          to shoot you. As it is, you've got a
          fifty-fifty chance.

                        JODY
          Thought you liked me, bitch.

                        JUDE
          It was fun while it lasted.

                        JODY
          Nice lady.

His breathing becomes labored.

                        JODY
          Please, man, I'm suffocating in here.

                        FERGUS
          Can't we take it off?

                        JUDE
          Have to check with himself.



                                                             9.



Fergus gives her the gun.

                        FERGUS
          You look after him.

Jody's head follows Fergus while he leaves.

                        JODY
          Don't leave me with her, man. She's
          dangerous...

Jude smiles, holding the gun on her lap.

INT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

Fergus enters. Maguire and the others. Maguire has a
newspaper, which has a headline regarding the kidnapping.

                        MAGUIRE
          Made the front page. They'll move now,
          the fuckers.

                        FERGUS
          Request permission to take the hood off,
          Tommy.

                        MAGUIRE
          Why would you do that?

                        FERGUS
          The poor whore's suffocating in the heat.

                        MAGUIRE
          So?

                        FERGUS
          And anyway, he's seen our faces.

                        MAGUIRE
          You sure?

                        FERGUS
          He described me down to a T. Knows what
          Jude looks like.

Maguire reads the paper.

                        FERGUS
          Tommy --



                                                            10.



                     MAGUIRE
          You're his keeper. If you don't mind him
          seeing you, I don't mind. But you're the
          only one he looks at.

                     FERGUS
          Thanks.

                     MAGUIRE
          It's your decision.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Jude, drinking tea, looking at Jody sweating. Fergus enters.
He puts his arm casually around her.

                     FERGUS
          Leave us, Judie.

                     JUDE
          My pleasure.

She goes. Fergus walks to Jody and slowly takes the hood off.
Jody looks up at him, his face bathed in sweat. He breathes
in mighty gulps of air. He smiles.

                     JODY
          Thank you, soldier.

Fergus smiles.

                     JODY
          Never thought fresh air would taste this
          good.

Fergus pours out a cup of tea and brings it to his lips.

                     JODY
          Now, if you took the ropes off, I'd be
          able to feed myself.

                     FERGUS
          No fucking way.

                     JODY
          Only joking.

Fergus drinks.

                     JODY
          You know, I was wrong about one thing.



                                                              11.



                          FERGUS
            What's that?

                          JODY
            Five ten. Brown eyes. But you're no
            pinup.

                          FERGUS
            No?

                          JODY
            Nope. Not handsome at all.

                          FERGUS
            You trying to hurt my feelings?

                          JODY
            No. It's the truth.

                          FERGUS
            Well, I could say the same about you.

                          JODY
            Could you?

                          FERGUS
            But I won't. We're more polite around
            these parts.

                          JODY
            So I've noticed.

Fergus looks at him. Jody isn't smiling anymore. Fergus goes
back to his seat and drinks his tea. He fingers the gun on
his lap.

                          JODY
            Hey --

                          FERGUS
            What is it now?

                          JODY
            You're going to have to do it, aren't
            you?

                          FERGUS
            Do what?

                          JODY
            Kill me.



                                            12.



           FERGUS
What makes you think that?

           JODY
They're going to let that guy die. And
you're going to kill me.

           FERGUS
They won't let him die.

           JODY
You want to bet?

           FERGUS
I'm not a gambling man.

           JODY
And even if he doesn't die -- you can't
just let me loose.

           FERGUS
Why can't we?

           JODY
Not in your nature.

           FERGUS
What do you know about my nature?

           JODY
I'm talking about your people, not you.

           FERGUS
What the fuck do you know about my
people?

           JODY
Only that you're all tough undeluded
motherfuckers. And that it's not in your
nature to let me go.

           FERGUS
Shut the fuck up, would you?

           JODY
And you know the funny thing?

           FERGUS
No, what's the funny thing?

           JODY
I didn't even fancy her.



                                                             13.



                       FERGUS
          Didn't look like that to me...

                       JODY
          She's not my type.

He looks at Fergus.

                       JODY
          C'mere.

                       FERGUS
          No.

                       JODY
          Ah, c'mere. I want to show you something.

                       FERGUS
          What?

                       JODY
          My inside pocket.

Fergus holds the gun to his face. He fishes inside Jody's
inside pocket.

                       JODY
          Take out the wallet.

Fergus's hand emerges with a wallet.

                       JODY
          Open it.

CLOSE ON THE WALLET. Credit cards, army identification
photograph.

                       JODY
          Inside. There's a picture.

Fergus takes out a picture. It is of Jody, in cricket whites,
smiling, holding a bat. Fergus smiles.

                       JODY
          No, not that one. There's another.

Fergus takes out another picture of Jody and of a beautiful
black woman, smiling.

                       JODY
          Now she's my type.



                                                       14.



                      FERGUS
          She'd be anyone's type.

                      JODY
          Don't you think of it, fucker.

                      FERGUS
          Why not?

                      JODY
          She's mine. Anyway, she wouldn't suit
          you.

                      FERGUS
          No?

                      JODY
          Absolutely not.

                      FERGUS
          She your wife?

                      JODY
          Suppose you could say that.

Jody chuckles.

                      FERGUS
          You make a nice couple.

                      JODY
          Don't I know it.

                      FERGUS
          So what were you fucking around for,
          then?

                      JODY
          You fuckers set me up. That bitch --

                      FERGUS
          She's a friend of mine

                      JODY
          Okay. That nice lady. Meets me in a bar.
          I'm saying what the fuck am I doing here
          anyway. She buys me a drink. She holds my
          hand. I'm looking at her saying I don't
          like you, bitch. But what the fuck. Maybe
          I'll get to understand.

                      FERGUS
          What?



                                             15.



          JODY
What the fuck am I doing here.

          FERGUS
What the fuck were you doing here?

          JODY
I got sent.

          FERGUS
You could have said no.

          JODY
Can't. Once I signed up.

          FERGUS
Why did you sign up?

          JODY
It was a job. So I get sent to the only
place in the world they call you nigger
to your face.

          FERGUS
Shouldn't take it personally.

          JODY
    (He imitates a Belfast accent)
"Go back to your banana tree, nigger." No
use telling them I came from Tottenham.

          FERGUS
And you play cricket?.

          JODY
Best game in the world.

          FERGUS
Ever see hurling?

          JODY
That game where a bunch of paddies whack
sticks at each other?

          FERGUS
Best game in the world.

          JODY
Never.

          FERGUS
The fastest.



                                                           16.



                        JODY
          Well, in Antigua cricket's the black
          man's game. The kids play it from the age
          of two. My daddy had me throwing googlies
          from the age of five. Then we moved to
          Tottenham and it was something different.

                        FERGUS
          How different?

                        JODY
          Toffs' game there. But not at home.     .

Fergus looks at him.

                        JODY
          So when you come to shoot me, Paddy,
          remember, you're getting rid of a shit-
          hot bowler.

                        FERGUS
          I'll bear that in mind.

He keeps looking at him.

                        FERGUS
          And by the way, it's not Paddy. It's
          Fergus.

Jody smiles.

                        JODY
          Nice to meet you, Fergus.

                        FERGUS
          My pleasure, Jody

EXT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus leads Jody outside, holding the gun against him.

                        FERGUS
          Take it easy, now. Just go slow. Down by
          that tree.

                        JODY
          Tree.

He walks toward it, breathing heavily.

                        JODY
          You've got to loosen my hands.



                                                           17.



                       FERGUS
          Can't.

                       JODY
          Well then, you're going to have to take
          my dick out for me, aren t you?

Fergus, in the dark, stands motionless, looking at him.

                       JODY
          Come on, man, I'm going to wet my pants!

Fergus turns him around and unzips his fly.

                       JODY
          Take the fucker out, man, I'm dying --

Fergus takes Jody's penis out.

Jody takes two steps toward the wall.

                       JODY
          I gotta lean forward or I'll dribble all
          over myself. Will you hold my hands for
          me.

Fergus holds his hands from behind, so Jody can lean forward.
Jody now pisses with immense relief

                       JODY
          Now, that was worth waiting for.

                       FERGUS
          Hurry up, would you?

                       JODY
          These things take time, Fergus.

He shakes his body.

                       JODY
          It's amazing how these small details take
          on such importance...

He steps back.

                       JODY
          Now put it back in.

                       FERGUS
          Give us a break.



                                                            18.



                          JODY
             I can't do it! It's only a piece of meat.
             For fuck's sake, it's got no major
             diseases.

Fergus puts Jody's penis back in his pants and zips him up.

                          JODY
             Thank you. I had a case of the clap two
             years ago. Crabs in Ulster. But all in
             all it's served me well.

                          FERGUS
             Shut up, would you?

                          JODY
             I'm sorry. Didn't mean to offend you,
             Fergus.

Fergus leads him hack toward the greenhouse.

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus leads Jody back to his chair.

                          JODY
             Fergus?

                          FERGUS
             Yeah?

                          JODY
             Thanks. I know that wasn't easy for you.

He begins to laugh.

                          FERGUS
             The pleasure was all mine.

Fergus begins to laugh, without knowing why.

EXT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Maguire, walking out of the house, woken by the sound of
laughter.

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Jody, still laughing. Suddenly the hood is slammed back over
his head.

Maguire, standing there in the dark, looking at Fergus.



                                                              19.



                    MAGUIRE
          What the fuck is this?

                    FERGUS
          It's nothing. He's just got a sense of
          humor, that's all.

                    MAGUIRE
          You're on duty. Keep your fucking mouth
          shut. Go in and get some sleep.

Fergus gets up slowly, walks toward the door.

                    JODY
          Yeah. Get some sleep.

EXT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus, walking toward the house. He looks back and sees the
figures of Maguire and Jody in the dark, in absolute silence.

INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus sleeping.

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Jody sleeping. Maguire sitting with an Armalite in his hands,
watching him.

EXT. FARMHOUSE AND FIELDS - DAY

The sun coming up over the low hills around the farmhouse.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Fergus enters, with a tray and some breakfast. Maguire is
sitting where he sat before, stock-still.

                    FERGUS
          Did he talk?

Maguire shakes his head.

                    FERGUS
          Didn't make you laugh?

Maguire shakes his head.

                    FERGUS
          Here. Have some breakfast.

He hands Maguire a plate. Jody stirs.



                                                              20.



                    JODY
          Good morning, Fergus?

Maguire looks hard at him.

                    MAGUIRE
          So he knows your name?

                    FERGUS
          I told him.

                    MAGUIRE
          Are you all there?

He rises, and drags Fergus out the door.

                    FERGUS
          Back in a minute, Jody

EXT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

                    MAGUIRE
          You'll have minimal contact with the
          prisoner, do you hear me?

                    FERGUS
          Yes.

                    MAGUIRE
          And do you know why?

                    FERGUS
          Why?

                    MAGUIRE
          Because tomorrow we might have to shoot
          him, that's why.

Maguire goes back to the house.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Jody sitting with the hood on again. Fergus enters.

                    JODY
          They giving you trouble, Fergus?

Fergus says nothing. He takes a plate and brings it toward
Jody



                                                           21.



                         JODY
             It happens. Y'see, there's two kinds of
             people. Those who give and those who
             take.

Fergus lifts up Jody's hood to expose his mouth and begins to
feed him.

                         JODY
             Ah, take the thing off, man.

Fergus says nothing and keeps feeding him.

                         JODY
             It's okay. I understand. Don't mind if I
             prattle on, do you?

Fergus shakes his head and says nothing.

                         JODY
             I will take it by your silence that you
             don't.

He eats. Fergus feeds himself, then feeds more to Jody.

                         JODY
             Two types, Fergus. The scorpion and the
             frog. Ever heard of them?

Fergus says nothing.

                         JODY
             Scorpion wants to cross a river, but he
             can't swim. Goes to the frog, who can,
             and asks for a ride. Frog says, "If I
             give you a ride on my back, you'll go and
             sting me." Scorpion replies, "It would
             not be in my interest to sting you since
             as I'll be on your back we both would
             drown." Frog thinks about this logic for
             a while and accepts the deal. Takes the
             scorpion on his back. Braves the waters.
             Halfway over feels a burning spear in his
             side and realizes the scorpion has stung
             him after all. And as they both sink
             beneath the waves the frog cries out,
             "Why did you sting me, Mr. Scorpion, for
             now we both will drown?" Scorpion
             replies, "I can't help it, it's in my
             nature."

Jody chuckles under his hood.



                                                           22.



                            FERGUS
              So what's that supposed to mean?

                            JODY
              Means what it says. The scorpion does
              what is in his nature. Take off the hood,
              man.

                            FERGUS
              Why?

                            JODY
              'Cause you're kind. It's in your nature.

Fergus walks toward him and pulls off the hood. Jody smiles
up at him.

                            JODY
              See? I was right about you.

                            FERGUS
              Don't be so sure.

                            JODY
              Jody's always right.

INT. GREENHOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON.

Both men dozing in the heat.

                            JODY
              Where would you most like to be now, man?

                            FERGUS
              Doesn't matter where.

                            JODY
              Come on, man. If this shit was all over.

                            FERGUS
              Having a pint in the Rock.

                            JODY
              You lack imagination, Fergus. Think of
              something more alluring.

                            FERGUS
              Like what?

                            JODY
              Like having a pint in the Metro --

Fergus laughs.



                                             23.



              FERGUS
Having two pints in the Rock.

              JODY
Having a pint in the Metro, and Dil's
having a margarita.

              FERGUS
Who's Dil?

              JODY
My special friend.

              FERGUS
Oh, yeah.

              JODY
We got simple tastes, you and me.

              FERGUS
The best.

              JODY
But you fellas never get a break, do you?

              FERGUS
Do you?

              JODY
Oh, yes. We do a tour of duty and we're
finished. But you guys are never
finished, are you?

              FERGUS
We don't look on it like that.

              JODY
I've often wondered how you do it.

              FERGUS
Depends on what you believe in.

              JODY
What do you believe in?

              FERGUS
That you guys shouldn't be here.

              JODY
It's as simple as that?

              FERGUS
Yes.



                                                            24.



Jude enters.

                        JUDE
          Put that thing back on him, Fergus.

                        FERGUS
          He's hot.

                        JUDE
          Doesn't matter if he's hot. Just cover
          the fucker up.

                        JODY
          Have you no feelings, woman?

                        JUDE
          You shut your face --

She pulls the hood down over him.

                        JUDE
          You're heading for trouble, Fergus --

                        JODY
          He's a good soldier, Jude.

She whacks him with a pistol.

                        JUDE
          I said shut the fuck up --

                        JODY
          He believes in the future --

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Jody, sitting in the hood. Fergus lifts it a bit; Jody's
mouth, with blood now in his lips.

                        FERGUS
          Is it bad?

                        JODY
          No. Not bad. Women are trouble, you know
          that, Fergus?

                        FERGUS
          I didn't.

                        JODY
          Some kinds of women are...



                                                          25.



                      FERGUS
            She can't help it.

                      JODY
            Dil wasn't trouble. No trouble at all.

                      FERGUS
            You liked her?

                      JODY
            Present tense, please. Love her. Whatever
            she is. I'm thinking of her now, Fergus.
            Will you think of her too?

                      FERGUS
            Don't know her.

                      JODY
            Want you to do something, Fergus.

                      FERGUS
            What?

                      JODY
            If they kill me --

                      FERGUS
            Don't think that way.

                      JODY
            But they will. As sure as night follows
            day. They have to. I want you to find her
            out. Tell her I was thinking of her.

Fergus is moved. He can't reply.

                      JODY
            See if she's all right.

                      FERGUS
            I don't know her.

                      JODY
            Take her picture. C'mere.

Fergus walks toward him.

                      JODY
            Take it. In the inside pocket.

Their faces, close to each other as Fergus searches out her
picture.



                                                             26.



                        JODY
          Take the whole lot. I won't need it.

                        FERGUS
          I told you not to talk that way --

                        JODY
          Go to Millie's Hair Salon in
          Spitalfields. Take her to the Metro for a
          margarita. Don't have to tell her who you
          are. Just tell her Jody was thinking --

                        FERGUS
          Stop it --

The door opens. Maguire is there, with another.

                        MAGUIRE
          Volunteer?

Fergus turns toward him.

                        MAGUIRE
          We need you inside.

Fergus walks toward Maguire and the other man walks forward,
takes his seat. Fergus, unseen by Maguire, puts the wallet in
his pocket.

INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Maguire, Jude, Fergus, and the others.

                        MAGUIRE
          We've had word. They've used every trick
          in the book on him. He's starting to
          talk. You're going to have to do it in
          the morning.

Maguire lights a cigarette. Fergus looks at him and nods.

                        MAGUIRE
          You OK about that?

                        FERGUS
          I'm a volunteer, am n't I?

                        MAGUIRE
          Good. I was beginning to have my doubts
          about you for the last few days.

                        JUDE
          Not the only one --



                                                          27.



                            MAGUIRE
              Shut up, Jude. You best get some sleep
              tonight, Fergus.

                            FERGUS
              Peter.

                            MAGUIRE
              What?

                            FERGUS
              Request permission to guard the prisoner
              tonight --

                            JUDE
              You're crazy. Don't let him, Peter.

                            MAGUIRE
              Shut the fuck up, Jude.

He turns back to Fergus. He puts his arm on Fergus's
shoulder.

                            MAGUIRE
              Why do you want to do that for?

                            FERGUS
              Would make me feel better about it.

                            MAGUIRE
              You sure about that?

                            FERGUS
              I'm sure.

                            MAGUIRE
              Okay. You're a good man, Fergus.

Fergus leaves.

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus takes his place in the chair beside Jody.

Jody begins to laugh under the hood. It turns into the sound
of crying.

                            FERGUS
              Don't.

                            JODY
              I'm sorry.



                                                              28.



The crying stops.

                        JODY
          Help me.

                        FERGUS
          How can I?

                        JODY
          I don't know. Just help me. Give me a
          cigarette.

Fergus takes out a cigarette, lights it, and lifts up Jody's
hood so he can smoke.

                        JODY
          Don't even smoke, you know that? It just
          seemed the right thing to do.

Fergus watches him puff the cigarette, the hood just above
his lips. Jody coughs, but keeps the cigarette in his lips.
Fergus gently takes the cigarette from his mouth.

                        FERGUS
          Go to sleep now.

                        JODY
          I don't want to sleep. Tell me something.

                        FERGUS
          What?

                        JODY
          A story.

                        FERGUS
          Like the one about the frog?

                        JODY
          And the scorpion. No. Tell me anything.

                        FERGUS
          When I was a child...

                        JODY
          Yeah?

                        FERGUS
          I thought as a child. But when I became a
          man I put away childish things...

                        JODY
          What does that mean?



                                                             29.



                       FERGUS
          Nothing.

                       JODY
          Tell me something, anything.

Fergus is silent; his eyes wet.

                       JODY
          Not a lot of use, are you, Fergus?

                       FERGUS
          Me? No, I'm not good for much...

EXT. FIELDS - MORNING.

The farmhouse covered in mist. The sun coming through it.

EXT. GREENHOUSE - MORNING.

Maguire opens the door to the greenhouse and clicks the
chamber of his gun. Fergus has a gun in his hand. He checks
the chamber.

Fergus takes Jody, whose hands are still tied behind his
back, by the elbow.

                       FERGUS
          Stand up, now --

Jody rises. Fergus leads him through the door, past Maguire.

                       MAGUIRE
          I wish to say on behalf of the Irish
          Republican Army --

Fergus turns with sudden fierceness.

                       FERGUS
          Leave him be --

He pulls Jody through the fields.

EXT. TREES - MORNING.

Fergus pushing Jody through a copse of trees, the gun at his
back.

                       JODY
          Take the hood off, Fergus --

                       FERGUS
          No.



                                                              30.



                     JODY
          I want to see a bit. Please, please.
          Don't make me die like an animal.

Fergus pulls the hood off. Jody looks around him. He has a
cut lip where Jude struck him.

Fergus prods him on with the gun. Jody stumbles forward.
Fergus is all cold and businesslike.

                     JODY
          I'm glad you're doing it, do you know
          that, Fergus?

                     FERGUS
          Why?

                     JODY
          Cause you're my friend. And I want you to
          go to the Metro --

                     FERGUS
          Stop that talk now --

                     JODY
          Hurling's a fast game, isn't it, Fergus?

                     FERGUS
          The fastest.

                     JODY
          Faster than cricket?

                     FERGUS
          Cricket's in the halfpenny place.

                     JODY
          So if I ran now, there's no way I'd beat
          you, is there?

                     FERGUS
          You won't run.

                     JODY
          But if I did... you wouldn't shoot a
          brother in the back --

Jody suddenly sprints, and, loosening the ties on his hands,
then freeing them, he is off like a hare. Fergus screams in
fury after him.

                     FERGUS
          JODY!!!



                                                              31.



Fergus aims, then changes his mind and runs.

                            FERGUS
              You stupid bastard --

                            JODY
              What you say, faster?

                            FERGUS
              I said you bastard -- stop --

                            JODY
              Got to catch me first --

Fergus gains on him -- stretches his arm out -- but Jody
sprints ahead again -- as if he has been playing with him. He
laughs in exhilaration. Fergus pants behind him, wheezing,
almost laughing.

                            JODY
              Used to run the mile, you know -- four
              times round the cricket pitch -- what was
              that game called?

                            FERGUS
              Hurling --

                            JODY
              What?

                            FERGUS
              Hurling --

Jody runs, whipping through the trees -- always ahead of him.

                            JODY
              Come on, Fergie -- you can do it -- a bit
              more wind --

Fergus grabs his shoulder and Jody shrugs it off, gaining on
him again.

                            JODY
              Bit of fun, Fergus, eh?

And suddenly the trees give way. Jody turns, laughing, to
Fergus.

                            JODY
              Told you I was fast --

Fergus is panting, pointing the gun at Jody



                                                             32.



                        JODY
             Don't do it.

And suddenly a Saracen tank whips around the corner, hits
Jody with the full of its fender. His body flies in the air
and bounces forward as another tank tries to grind to a halt
and the huge wheels grind over him.

Fergus, screaming, "No-!" He almost moves forward, then sees
soldiers spilling from the tank around the body. Fergus turns
and runs.

EXT. TREES - DAY

Fergus whipping through the trees, his body crouched low as
he runs.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Tinker sitting in the greenhouse. A helicopter screams into
view through the panes and automatic fire comes from it,
shattering every pane in seconds and tearing Tinker to bits.

INT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

Bullets whipping through every window, taking chunks from the
masonry, tearing the walls apart. Maguire, Jude, and the
others on the floor, scrambling for weapons.

EXT. TREES - DAY

Fergus, hearing the gunfire, runs through overhanging
branches till eventually he is hidden from sight.

EXT. CARNIVAL ON THE MONAGHAN BORDER - DAWN.

A forlorn-looking building over nondescript fields.

An old man wheels a bicycle slowly toward it; a rusty car
appears; and Fergus gets out of it.

                        TOMMY
             Fergus!

                        FERGUS
             You're back in the pink, Tommy? How're
             you keeping?

INT. CARAVAN - DAY

The old man pouring whiskey into a teacup.



                                                                33.



                        TOMMY
             You'll notice I've asked you nothing.

                        FERGUS
             That's wise, Tommy.

                        TOMMY
             All right, then. I like to be wise.

He pours Fergus more whiskey.

                        TOMMY
             So what do you need, Fergus?

                        FERGUS
             Need to go across the water.

                        TOMMY
             Do you now.

                        FERGUS
             Need to lose myself awhile.

                        TOMMY
             Aha.

He looks at Fergus and lights a cigarette.

He puffs.

                        TOMMY
             There's a man I know ships cattle to
             London.

EXT. DUBLIN BAY - EVENING.

The ferry, churning into the sunset.

                                                      FADE TO BLACK.

INT. BUILDING SITE - DAY

FADE UP into an elegant, empty Georgian room, covered in
clouds of dust. A figure among the clouds of dust, hacking at
a wall with a sledgehammer. It is Fergus, dressed in
laborer's overalls, covered in dust. He is knocking the
bricks from an outer wall. He works furiously and
relentlessly, like a machine.

We see the wall, with the hammer striking it. One brick falls
away, then another. Daylight pours through the clouds of dust
and the growing hole.



                                                              34.



Fergus's face, as he works.

The hole. More bricks falling away. Through the clouds of
dust and the streams of daylight we now see a patch of green.

Fergus's face, working. His rhythm slows.

The hole. More bricks fall away. Then the hammer stops. The
dust begins to clear.

His face.

The jagged hole. The dust drifts across it, revealing a
cricket pitch, with tiny sticklike figures running on the
green.

EXT. HOSTEL - DAY

Fergus, returning from work, crosses the street, and enters
through a white door.

INT. HOSTEL - DAY

Fergus dressing. He puts on a cheap suit, like any country
boy in a big city. He takes Jody's wallet from the trousers
of his overalls. He flips it open, sees the picture of the
soldier and Dil. He puts it in the pocket of his suit.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Fergus walking down a street looking for an address. Some
distance down the street is a sign -- MILLIE'S UNISEX HAIR
SALON.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Fergus, standing as the crowds go by him, looking in the
window. He has the picture in his hand. We see Dil from his
point of view, then Fergus walks inside.

INT. HAIR SALON - DAY

Fergus enters. The door gives a loud ping.

                       A GIRL
             We're closing. I'll see you tomorrow, Dil

She leaves the salon.

                       DIL
             You want something in particular?



                                                              35.



                        FERGUS
          Just a bit of a trim...

Dil checks her watch and stubs out a cigarette.

                        DIL
          Come on...

She gestures toward a chair. Fergus sits down. She comes
toward him and fiddles with his hair.

She pushes his head back into a basin behind him. She begins
to knead his hair in hot water and shampoo.

                        DIL
          Someone recommend you?

                        FERGUS
          In a way.

                        DIL
          Who?

                        FERGUS
          Guy I work with.

                        DIL
          What's his name?

Fergus can't think of an answer. The hands with the purple
nails run over his scalp.

                        FERGUS
          Doesn't the water get to your nails?

                        DIL
          What's it to you?

                        FERGUS
          Nothing.

Fergus, sitting up. She begins to cut.

                        DIL
          You American?

                        FERGUS
          No.

                        DIL
          Not English.



                                                              36.



                           FERGUS
             No.

                           DIL
             Scottish?

                           FERGUS
             How'd you guess?

                           DIL
             The accent, I suppose.

                           FERGUS
             And what's it like?

                           DIL
             Like treacle.

She imitates his accent saying it. Fergus laughs.

                           DIL
             Nice laugh.

Dil raises Fergus's head up, with his new-cut hair and holds
a mirror up behind his head so he can see the back. He looks
like a young London stockbroker. The hair salon around them
is empty.

                           DIL
             That should make her happy.

                           FERGUS
             Who's she?

                           DIL
             Don't know. Who is she?

EXT. HAIR SALON - EVENING.

Fergus emerges from the shop. He takes one last look through
the window where Dil is taking off her smock, touching up her
hair, etc. It is as if she has forgotten all about him. He
walks off through the crowds and then ducks into a doorway.

The doorway of the shop. Dil comes out, dressed in a pair of
high heels, a very short skirt, different, more raunchy
clothes on her than we saw inside. She locks the glass door
and walks down the street, across the road, and into a pub
called the Metro. Fergus follows.



                                                             37.



INT. METRO - EVENING.

Half full, with an after-work crowd. Dil makes her way
through it.

                        BARMAN
          Hi, Dil

                        DIL
          Hiya, hon.

She sits down at the bar. Fergus comes toward the bar and
takes a seat.

                        BARMAN
          What'll it be?

                        FERGUS
          A bottle of Guinness.

Dil, looking at Fergus.

                        DIL
          See that, Col?

                        COL
          See what, Dil?

                        DIL
          He gave me a look.

                        COL
          Did he?

Fergus blushes. He buries himself in his drink.

                        DIL
          Just cut his hair, you know.

                        COL
          Yeah?

                        DIL
          What you think?

                        COL
          Nice.

Fergus throws his eyes toward her again. She has her face
turned away, but sees him in the mirror.

                        DIL
          There, he did it again.



                                                             38.



                           COL
              Saw that one.

                           DIL
              What would you call it?

                           COL
              Now, that was a look.

She eyes Fergus in the mirror.

                           DIL
              Ask him to ask me what I'm drinking.

The barman, with infinite weariness, approaches Fergus.

                           COL
              She wants to know do you want to know
              what she's drinking.

Fergus is about to talk when she pipes up.

                           DIL
              A margarita.

The barman mixes it. She stares at the mirror, staring at
Fergus, who is trying to avoid her eyes. The barman hands her
the drink.

                           DIL
              Now he can look.... Ask him does he like
              his hair, Col.

                           COL
              She wants to know, sir, do you like your
              hair.

                           FERGUS
              Tell her I'm very happy with it.

                           DIL
              He's Scottish, Col.

                           COL
              Scottish?

                           FERGUS
              Yeah.

                           DIL
              What'd he say, Col?



                                                              39.



                         COL
           He agreed that he was.

                         DIL
           What do you think his name is?

                         COL
           I've no thoughts on the subject.

                         FERGUS
           Jimmy.

                         DIL
           Jimmy?

                         COL
           That's what he said. Jimmy.

                         DIL
           Hi, Jimmy.

                         FERGUS
           Hiya, Dil

A burly man sits down beside her. He puts his hand on her
knee.

                         MAN
           Sing the song, Dil --

She slaps the hand away.

                         DIL
           Fuck off, Dave.

                         DAVE
           C'mon, babe! You know what I like...
           Easy!

She turns back to Fergus and finds his seat empty.

EXT. METRO - NIGHT.

Fergus, standing across the road from the pub. He is
sweating. Dil comes out of the pub. She looks this way and
that, as if searching for Fergus. Fergus stands back into a
shadow.

Dave, the burly man, comes out. He grabs her by the elbow.
She shrugs him off. She walks off. Dave follows, grabs her by
the elbow again. The sense of an old argument. Dave suddenly
strikes her across the face with his open palm.



                                                              40.


She leans her head against a wall. Dave then puts his arms
around her, consoles her.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT.

Dave walking, holding Dil by the arm. The street is
dilapidated, full of squats. They stop outside a door. Dil
opens the door with a key from her purse and they both walk
inside.

Fergus stands there, observing.

A light comes on in an upstairs room. Dil enters; we see her
shadow in silhouette behind the curtain and the shadow of
Dave coming in behind her. He begins to remove her blouse.
She stands absolutely still as he does so.

Fergus backs away, then walks off.

INT. HOSTEL - NIGHT.

Fergus, in bed. Fade to black as we see Jody as a bowler,
running in slow motion, toward the camera. He releases the
ball; we see Fergus in bed, breathing heavily.

INT. SITE - NEXT DAY

Fergus takes a break and watches the batsman hit a ball. He
imitates the batsman's motion with his sledgehammer. Then a
voice interrupts him.

                        DEVEROUX
           So Pat's a cricket fan, eh?

Fergus turns. We see Tristram Deveroux, a young Sloane type
in a three-piece suit, whose house it is. Beside him is
Franknum, the cockney foreman.

                        FERGUS
           It's not Pat. It's Jim.

                        DEVEROUX
           Jim, Pat, Mick, what the fuck. Long as
           you remember you're not at Lords.

Fergus resumes work.

INT. METRO - NIGHT.

It is now crowded with people, black, white, punky and street
chic, a lot of leather All the women are heavily made-up.
Someone is singing from the tiny stage and rows of cheap
colored bulbs are flashing around it.



                                                              41.



From the way Fergus walks through, it is obvious he has never
been here at night. He seems most out of place in his cheap
suit, making his way through the crowd to the bar.

AT THE BAR.

Fergus looks through the odd crowd, but can't find Dil. Col,
the barman, sees him and smiles.

                     COL
          So can we consider you a regular, sir?

                     FERGUS
          Is that good or bad?

                     COL
          Well, you get to say, The usual, Col.
          Things like that.

Col pushes a colored cocktail with one of those Japanese
umbrellas toward him.

                     COL
          So let's call this the usual.

                     FERGUS
          Thanks.

Fergus reaches for his wallet to pay, but Col interrupts.

                     COL
          No, no. It's on me.

Fergus tries to pretend he's familiar with the drink, and by
implication, whatever are the norms of the place. He lifts
the glass to his mouth, but the umbrella keeps getting in the
way.

                     COL
          Take it out, if you want.

Fergus takes out the umbrella. He holds it in one hand and
drinks with the other.

                     COL
          You came to see her, didn't you?

Fergus shrugs. He takes out a cigarette. A guy in leather to
his left smiles at him.

                     COL
          Something I should tell you. She's --



                                                              42.



                       FERGUS
          She's what?

The barman looks up toward the stage.

                       COL
          She's on.

THE JUKEBOX.

A hand presses a button. The needle selects a disk. A song by
Dave Berry, "The Crying Game."

AT THE BAR.

Fergus looks up. Close-up of Dil's hand, as music begins,
making movements to the music. We see Dil, standing on a
stage, swaying slightly. She seems a little drunk. She mimes
to the song. She mouths the words so perfectly and the voice
on the song is so feminine that there is no way of knowing
who is doing the singing. She does all sorts of strange
movements, as if she is drawing moonbeams with her hands.

The crowd seems to know this act. They cheer, whether out of
approval or derision we can't be sure.

Fergus watching.

Dil singing, noticing him. She comes to the end of the song.
The crowd cheers.

Fergus, watching her make her way through the crowded bar,
toward him.

                       DIL
          He's still looking, Col.

                       COL
          Persistent.

                       DIL
          Good thing in a man.

                       COL
          An excellent quality.

                       DIL
          Maybe he wants something.

                       COL
          I would expect he does.



                                                             43.



                      DIL
          Ask him.

                      COL
          Ask him yourself.

She looks at Fergus directly, sits down next to him.

                      DIL
          So tell me.

Fergus says nothing. He shrugs.

                      DIL
          Everybody wants something.

                      FERGUS
          Not me.

                      DIL
          Not you. How quaint. How old-fashioned
          and quaint. Isn't it, Col?

Col shrugs.

                      DIL
          You old-fashioned?

                      FERGUS
          Must be.

The burly man comes up to her.

                      MAN
          Got the money, Dil?

                      DIL
          Fuck off, Dave.

                      DAVE
          You fucking promised.

                      DIL
          Did I?

                      DAVE
          You fucking did.

He suddenly jerks her roughly off the stool, spilling her
drink.

                      DAVE
          Didn't you? Well, come on!



                                                              44.



He drags her through the crowd. In the mirror, Fergus watches
them go. The barman eyes him.

                        COL
              It takes all types.

                        FERGUS
              So who's he?

                        COL
              He's what she should run a mile from.

                        FERGUS
              Then why doesn't she?

                        COL
              Who knows the secrets of the human heart.

Fergus suddenly stands and makes his way to the door.

EXT. PUB - NIGHT.

Fergus comes out. A black bouncer is there, but there is no
sign of Dil. He walks a few yards and hears voices down an
alley. He looks up it.

P0V - ALLEY.

We see Dil pushing Dave away. He grabs her, turns her
roughly.

                        DAVE
              Don't be like that --

                        DIL
              You heard me --

She beats his arms away. Money falls on the ground. She
staggers away from him. He picks up the money, then runs
after her.

                        DAVE
              Got very fucking grand, haven't we --

He tries to pull her back.

                        DAVE
              Talk to me, you stupid bitch --

They both bump into Fergus, who just stands there and doesn't
move an inch. She smiles.



                                                             45.



                        DIL
          Hi.

                        FERGUS
          Hi. You forgot your bag.

He holds it up to show her.

                        DIL
          Thank you.

                        DAVE
          Who the fuck is he?

                        DIL
          Jimmy.

                        DAVE
          It's him, isn't it?

                        DIL
          Maybe.

Dave eyes Fergus. Fergus grabs his wrists and upends him on
the ground.

                        DIL
          See, they get the wrong idea.

                        DAVE
                 (from the ground)
          Cunt.

Fergus puts his foot on Dave's neck.

                        FERGUS
          What was that?

                        DIL
          They all get the wrong idea.

                        DAVE
          Cunt. Scrag-eyed dyke cunt.

                        DIL
          Charming.

Dave grabs for her ankle. She kicks his hand away. Fergus
presses down his foot. He looks to Dil.

                        FERGUS
          What'll I do?



                                                          46.



                          DIL
            Break his neck.

Fergus presses his foot.

                          DIL
            No, don't.

She bends low to Dave.

                          DIL
            He's going to take his foot off slowly,
            David. Then you're to go home, like a
            good boy. You hear me?

                          DAVE
            Cunt.

But his voice is softer. Fergus removes his foot. Dil grabs
his arm.

                          DIL
            Come on, honey.

She draws him away.

EXT. METRO - NIGHT.

They walk out of the alley.

                          FERGUS
            You all right?

                          DIL
            Yes, thank you.

                          FERGUS
            What was that all about?

                          DIL
            He wants me to perform for him.

                          FERGUS
            Perform?

                          DIL
            You know.

                          FERGUS
            You on the game?

                          DIL
            God no. I'm a hairdresser.



                                                              47.



Fergus looks back. Dave is rising.

                     FERGUS
          He's getting up.

                     DIL
          You can't leave me then, can you?

EXT. STAIRCASE OUTSIDE DIL'S FLAT

Fergus and Dil climb slowly upstairs.

                     DIL
          You want me to ask you in, right?

                     FERGUS
          No, I didn't --

                     DIL
          But I'm not cheap, you know that? Loud,
          but never cheap.

There is a movement lower down the staircase. We see Dave,
holding his neck.

                     DAVE
          Fucking dumb dyke carrot cunt.

Dil leans close to Fergus.

                     DIL
          If you kissed me, it would really get his
          goat.

She tilts up her face. Fergus kisses her, tenderly.

                     DIL
          Now, if you asked me to meet you
          tomorrow, it would really drive him
          insane.

                     FERGUS
          Where?

                     DIL
          Half-five. At Millie's.

She goes in and closes the door. Fergus stands and looks down
at Dave, who turns to leave.

EXT. HAIR SALON - DAY

Dil walks out of the salon, smiling, and walks toward Fergus.



                                                             48.



                        DIL
          Give me that look again.

                        FERGUS
          What look?

                        DIL
          The one you gave me in the Metro.

Fergus takes a bunch of flowers from behind his back. She
holds them, with theatrical feeling.

                        DIL
          Darling, you shouldn't have.

She laughs and leans toward him and kisses him in a
classically old-fashioned way. The girls inside the salon
pull back a curtain, and they all clap.

                        FERGUS
          What's that about?

                        DIL
          They're jealous.

                        FERGUS
          Why?

                        DIL
          I wonder.

She takes his arm and walks off with him.

INT. INDIAN RESTAURANT - NIGHT.

Fergus and Dil looking at their menus. A waiter places drinks
on their table, then leaves.

                        DIL
          Now's the time you're meant to do
          something, isn't it?

                        FERGUS
          Like what?

                        DIL
          Make a pass or something. Isn't that the
          way it goes?

                        FERGUS
          Must be.



                                                              49.



EXT. STREET - NIGHT.

They are walking in an alleyway toward her house.

                        DIL
          You got a special friend, Jimmy?

                        FERGUS
          How special?

                        DIL
          You want one?

And suddenly a car drives very fast toward them, headlights
on. Fergus pulls her into a doorway to avoid it.

                        FERGUS
          Jesus Christ!

                        DIL
          Jesus.

The car continues down the road, stops, and then screeches
off.

                        FERGUS
          That Dave?

                        DIL
          The things a girl has to put up with.

She looks down toward where the car has pulled away.

                        DIL
          I'm frightened, Jimmy. That's not like
          him.

EXT. DIL'S FLAT.

A car pulls up behind Dil and Fergus.

                        DIL
          Piss off, Dave!

                        FERGUS
          Tough guy, huh? Are you going to be all
          right on your own?

                        DIL
          I'm not on my own, am I?

She touches his cheek.



                                                             50.



                        DIL
          Come on up, would you?

INT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

Dil comes in in the darkness. Fergus stands like a shadow in
the doorway. The light comes on; she takes off her raincoat.

                        DIL
          Won't hurt you to come in.

Fergus enters slowly. He looks around the room; there is an
exaggerated femininity about everything in it.

                        DIL
          Would you like a drink?

                        FERGUS
          Yes, please.

                        DIL
          What'll it be?

                        FERGUS
          Whiskey.

She goes into a small kitchen. Fergus looks at the
mantelpiece and sees a picture of Jody. The camera tracks
into the soldier's smiling face. Then into Fergus's face. His
reverie is broken by the sound of a voice outside -- Dave's.

She comes through with two drinks.

                        FERGUS
          Someone out there.

                        DIL
          Jesus fucking Christ.

She opens the window door, and we see Dave on the street, in
a neck brace.

                        DIL
          Hey, Stirling fucking Moss --

                        DAVE
          It's Dave.

She goes back into the room and begins taking things up.

                        DAVE
          Talk to me, Dil --



                                                              51.



                        DIL
           Sure, Dave --

                        DAVE
           Please, Dil --

She flings things down: men's clothes, leather trousers, a
suitcase, a teddy bear.

                        DIL
           Take your clothes.

                        DAVE
           Don't throw my clothes out the window!

                        DIL
           Fuck off back to Essex!

                        DAVE
           Fucking mad!

Fergus looks to the man down in the street, a parody of
rejection with his things in his arms.

                        DAVE
           Don't chuck my clothes out!

                        DIL
           Take your fucking goldfish, too!

Dil grabs a large goldfish bowl and flings it down. The bowl
breaks to bits on the pavement. Goldfish thrash around in the
street.

                        DAVE
           You fucking bitch!

He tries to pick up the flapping fish in his hands.

                        DAVE
           Murderer!

Upstairs, Dil closes the window shut.

                        DIL
           Sorry. How'd he drive with his neck in a
           brace?

                        FERGUS
           Must be in love to manage that.

                        DIL
           Doesn't know the meaning of the word.



                                                              52.



Fergus stands as Dil hands him a glass.

                       FERGUS
          He lived here with you?

                       DIL
          Tried to. Sit down, will you?

Fergus walks past the photograph and sits down. He looks from
her to the picture.

                       FERGUS
          What about him?

He nods toward the picture. She looks down into her drink.

                       DIL
          He was different.

                       FERGUS
          How different?

                       DIL
          As different as it's possible to be.

                       FERGUS
          Tell me about him.

                       DIL
          No.

                       FERGUS
          Shouldn't I go?

                       DIL
          Yes.

And they fall into one another's arms. She stretches up with
her whole body over him. They grow suddenly and violently
passionate.

They fall into the cushions of the couch onto the floor. The
photograph above them seems to smile. He draws up her dress
with his hands. She suddenly pulls away.

                       DIL
          No --

                       FERGUS
          Did you do that to him?

She comes up toward him once more. She puts her mouth close
to his ear.



                                                              53.



                        DIL
          You want to know how I kissed him?

                        FERGUS
          Yes...

                        DIL
          Are you jealous of him?

                        FERGUS
          Maybe.

                        DIL
          That's good...

She opens the buttons on his shirt and her mouth travels down
his chest. Fergus tries to draw her up toward him, but her
hand reaches up to his mouth and presses his head back while
her other hand undoes his pants. She kisses his stomach; her
mouth moves down his body. Fergus stares at the picture of
Jody. Jody's eyes seem to burn through him. Dil raises her
head and kisses his mouth. There are tears in his eyes.

                        FERGUS
          What would he think?

                        DIL
          Can't think. He's dead. In Ireland. He
          was a soldier. Went there like a fool.

She sits in front of the mirror.

                        FERGUS
          Do you miss him?

                        DIL
          What do you think?

                        FERGUS
          I think you do.

                        DIL
                  (dreamily)
          You say that like a gentleman.

                        FERGUS
          Do I?

                        DIL
          Like you're concerned.

Fergus gets up and stands behind her, gently pushes the hair
from her face.



                                                             54.



                        DIL
          But you can t stay, you know that?

                        FERGUS
          Didn't think I could.

                        DIL
          A real gentleman...

She embraces him.

                        FERGUS
          Shouldn't you be in mourning?

                        DIL
          I am.

She sits back down in front of the mirror. Fergus leaves. She
reapplies her lipstick.

INT. METRO - NIGHT.

Singer in a blue dress. Dil and Fergus by the bar. Both
drinking drinks with umbrellas. Dave comes up behind them
with his neck brace.

                        DAVE
          Look, I'm sorry.

                        DIL
          Fuck off, Dave.

                        DAVE
          No, I won't fucking fuck off. Said I'm
          sorry, didn't I?

                        DIL
          Yeah. I heard. You hear, Jimmy?

Fergus nods. He stands. Dave steps two feet back.

                        FERGUS
          I was only going to ask her for a dance.

Fergus takes Dil's arm.

                        FERGUS
          Shall we?

The woman is singing.

As they circle, people begin to look at them admiringly. Dil
holds her cheek close to his.



                                                             55.



                      FERGUS
          Did he come here too?

                      DIL
          Is this an obsession of yours?

                      FERGUS
          Maybe.

                      DIL
          He did sometimes.

                      FERGUS
          Did he dance with you?

Dil doesn't answer. Looks at him out of the corner of her
eye.

                      DIL
          So what do you want with me, Jimmy?

                      FERGUS
          Want to look after you.

                      DIL
          What does that mean?

                      FERGUS
          Something I heard someone say once.

She draws back and looks at him.

                      DIL
          You mean that?

                      FERGUS
          Yeah.

She dances closer.

                      DIL
          Why?

                      FERGUS
          If I told you, you wouldn't believe me.

In the bar, people singing along with the music. Col sings.
Dave sitting at the bar, sulking.

                      DIL
          You're not having me on, are you? 'Cause
          Dil can't stand that.



                                                             56.



                     FERGUS
          No.

She puts her cheek against his. Dave, at the bar, slams his
drink down.

                     DIL
          And she does get very upset...

Dave stands up to leave. On the stage the act finishes. Dil
draws Fergus back to the bar.

AT THE BAR.

Col, the barman, pours her drink.

                     DIL
          One for him, too.

Col pours and smiles.

                     DIL
          Drink.

                     FERGUS
          What is this?

                     DIL
          I'm superstitious. Drink.

He drinks. He grimaces. She throws it back in one.

                     DIL
          Can't leave me now.

                     FERGUS
          Aha.

                     DIL
          The thing is, can you go the distance?

                     FERGUS
          Depends what it is.

                     DIL
          No, depends on nothing.

She takes the bottle herself and fills their glasses. She
slams it back. He sips.

                     DIL
          In one.



                                                              57.



She tilts his glass back. He swallows it in one.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

She enters; Fergus walks in slowly. He looks from the cricket
whites that are hanging up behind a curtain to the
photographs.

                           DIL
              What you thinking of, hon?

                           FERGUS
              I'm thinking of your man.

                           DIL
              Why?

                           FERGUS
              I'm wondering why you keep his things.

                           DIL
              Told you, I'm superstitious.

She turns toward him and undoes her hair. It falls around her
shoulders.

                           FERGUS
              Did he ever tell you you were beautiful?

                           DIL
              All the time.

Fergus runs his hand down her throat.

                           DIL
              Even now.

                           FERGUS
              No...

                           DIL
              He looks after me. He's a gentleman too.

She draws him behind a curtain toward the bed, pulls him
down. They kiss passionately.

                           DIL
              Give me one minute.

She walks into the bathroom. Fergus lies there, looking at
the picture, listening to the sound of running water. She
comes out then, dressed in a silk kimono. She looks
extraordinarily beautiful.



                                                              58.


He reaches out his hand and grasps hers. He draws her toward
him. He begins to kiss her face and neck.

                            FERGUS
              Would he have minded?

She murmurs no. His hands slip the wrap down from her
shoulders.

CLOSE ON HIS HANDS, traveling down her neck, in the darkness.
Then the hands stop. The kimono falls to the floor gently,
with a whisper. The camera travels with it, and we see, in a
close-up, that she is a man.

Fergus sits there, frozen, staring at her.

                            DIL
              You did know, didn't you?

Fergus says nothing.

                            DIL
              Oh my God.

She gives a strange little laugh, then reaches out to touch
him. Fergus smacks the hand away.

                            FERGUS
              Jesus. I feel sick --

He gets up and runs to the bathroom. She grabs his feet.

                            DIL
              Don't go, Jimmy --

He kicks her away. He runs into the bathroom and vomits into
the tub.

She crouches on the floor.

                            DIL
              I'm sorry. I thought you knew.

He retches again.

                            DIL
              What were you doing in the bar if you
              didn't know -- I'm bleeding...

She lights a cigarette.

Fergus runs the taps. He washes his face, rinses his mouth.



                                                              59.



                        DIL
          It's all right, Jimmy. I can take it.
          Just not on the face.

Fergus slams the door shut. She is sitting on the couch, the
kimono round her once more, looking very much like a woman. A
trace of blood on her mouth.

                        DIL
          Y'see, I'm not a young thing any
          longer.... Funny the way things go. Don't
          you find that, Jimmy? Never the way you
          expected.

Fergus comes out of the bathroom.

                        FERGUS
          I'm sorry.

She looks up. Some hope in her face.

                        DIL
          You mean that?

And he makes to go. She grabs him to stop him.

                        DIL
          Don't go like that. Say something...

He pulls away from her. She falls to the floor.

                        DIL
          Jesus.

He drags himself away and runs down the stairs.

INT. FERGUS'S FLAT

Fergus in bed. Flash to shot of blackness, Jody grinning in
cricket whites, throwing the ball up and down in his hand.

INT. METRO - NIGHT.

The place is hopping. Fergus enters. He now sees it as he
should have seen it the first night -- as a transvestite bar.
He makes his way through the crowds. All the women too-
heavily made-up. Some beautifully sleek young things he looks
at he realizes are young men. He makes his way to the bar
where Dil is sitting, nursing a drink with an umbrella in it.
Her face is bruised. She is wearing dark glasses.

As he walks toward her she sees him in the mirror. She talks
to Col the barman.



                                                          60.



                          DIL
            He's back, Col

                          COL
            Hi.

                          DIL
            Don't want any of those looks, Col. They
            don't mean much.

                          COL
            Stop it, Dil --

                          DIL
            No. Tell him to go fuck himself.

Fergus sits. Col turns to him.

                          COL
            She wants me to tell you go fuck
            yourself.

                          FERGUS
            I'm sorry.

There is a tear running down her cheek, under the dark
glasses.

                          DIL
            Tell him to stop messing Dil around --

                          FERGUS
            Dil --

                          DIL
            Tell him it hurt --

                          FERGUS
            I have to talk to her, Col --

                          COL
            Says he's got to talk to you --

Fergus touches her arm.

                          FERGUS
            Come on, Dil --

                          DIL
            Where?

She whips her arm away.



                                                              61.



                        DIL
          Tell him again, Col. Go fuck himself --

She walks into the crowd, toward the door.

Fergus leaves.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT.

Fergus, walking outside Dil's place. The blinds in her room
are down and the light is on inside. We see her outline,
pacing up and down behind the blinds, smoking a cigarette. We
hear the song "The Crying Game."

Fergus stands beneath her doorway, scribbles a note, and
sticks it in the letter box.

EXT. CRICKET PITCH - DAY

A man removes a large number six from a huge scoreboard with
a pole and replaces it with a number nine.

Below the scoreboard we can see Dil walking across a lawn
toward the building where Fergus is working.

INT. SITE - DAY

Fergus, fitting a new window into the finished wall. On the
pitch we see the cricketers, distorted through the moving
glass of the window. Across the pitch Dil walks, with a lunch
basket in her hand, dressed in a very short skirt with high
heels. As she approaches the site a chorus of whistles breaks
out.

Fergus, hearing the whistling, stares out. He sees Dil moving
toward the site. He drops the window and the glass shatters.
As the whistles continue, we see Dil in the site's lift,
which rises up. We see Deveroux and Franknum climbing up a
ladder toward Fergus .

                        DEVEROUX
          How much did that frame cost, Mr.
          Franknum?

                        FRANKNUM
          Two hundred quid, Mr. Deveroux.

                        DEVEROUX
          Your Pat just cost me two hundred quid.

                        FERGUS
          Sorry.



                                                              62.



                        DEVEROUX
          Sorry won't bring the bloody thing back,
          will it, Mr. Franknum?

                        FRANKNUM
          Not in my experience.

                        DEVEROUX
          Off his wages.

                        FERGUS
          Do you mean that?

                        DEVEROUX
          He wants to know do I mean that.

                        FRANKNUM
          I'm sure you do, Mr. Deveroux.

                        DEVEROUX
          Bloody right I do...

Through this conversation Fergus can hear the chorus of wolf
whistles increasing. He looks out the gap where the window
should be and sees Dil in the lift. The laborers whistle at
her, looking up her skirt, etc.

She passes by a gap in the wall and blows a kiss at him.

                        DEVEROUX
          Is that his tart? Does Pat have a tart?

                        FERGUS
          She's not a tart.

                        DEVEROUX
          No, of course not, she's a lady.

                        FERGUS
          She's not that either.

Fergus walks out of the room.

Fergus walks round the scaffolding. Dil sees him and waves,
sits on some bricks and opens the hamper.

                        DIL
          Darling --

She is acting bright and businesslike, like any wife. She is
wearing dark glasses to cover the bruise on her face. She
pecks him on the cheek.



                                                       63.



                      DIL
          Never let the sun go down on an argument,
          Jody used to say.

                      FERGUS
          What you doing here?

                      DIL
          Got your note. So let's kiss and make up,
          hon.

                      FERGUS
          Don't call me that.

                      DIL
          Sorry, darling.

                      FERGUS
          Give it over, Dil --

                      DIL
          Apologies, my sweet.

Fergus smiles in spite of himself.

                      DIL
          That's more like it, dear. Have a cuppa.

She takes out a thermos and pours him some tea.

                      FERGUS
          You're something else, Dil, you know
          that?

                      DIL
          Never said a truer word.

She hands him a neatly cut sandwich.

                      DIL
          See, I was always best looking after
          someone. Must be something in the genes.

                      FERGUS
          Must be.

                      DIL
          And the fact that you didn't know is
          basically the fault of yours truly. And
          even when you were throwing up, I could
          tell you cared.



                                                       64.



                        FERGUS
          You could?

                        DIL
          Do you care, Jimmy?

                        FERGUS
          Sure I do.

                        DIL
          You mean that?

                        FERGUS
          Yeah. I care, Dil.

She lowers her head.

                        FERGUS
          You crying, Dil?

He removes her glasses and looks at her moist eyes.

                        DIL
          I'm tired and emotional.

Then he hears a voice behind him.

                        DEVEROUX
          Do it on your own time, Paddy.

                        FERGUS
          What?

                        DEVEROUX
          Whatever it is she does for you.

Fergus looks from Dil to Deveroux.

                        FERGUS
          If I was her I'd consider that an insult.

                        DEVEROUX
          Consider it how you like. Just get that
          bloody tart out of here.

Fergus stands up suddenly. He speaks quietly.

                        FERGUS
          Did you ever pick your teeth up with
          broken fingers?

Deveroux stares, suddenly chilled.



                                                          65.



                      DEVEROUX
          What's that supposed to mean?

                      FERGUS
          It's a simple question.

Deveroux says nothing. Fergus looks down to Dil.

                      FERGUS
          Come on, dear.

He holds out his arm. Dil gathers up her things and takes it.
Her face is wreathed in a smile.

                      DIL
          He didn't answer, honey --

Fergus walks her down the scaffolding ramp.

                      FRANKNUM
          Sorry about that, Mr. Deveroux.

Dil and Fergus descend from the site in the lift.

                      DIL
          My, oh my, Jimmy, how gallant.

                      FERGUS
          Shut up.

                      DIL
          Made me feel all funny inside.

                      FERGUS
          I said stop it.

                      DIL
          Ask me to meet you again, Jimmy.

                      FERGUS
          You think that's wise?

                      DIL
          Nothing's wise.

The lift stops with a thud.

                      FERGUS
          I didn't mean to hit you.

                      DIL
          I know that.



                                                            66.



                        FERGUS
          Kind of liked you as a girl.

                        DIL
          That's a start.

                        FERGUS
          So I'm sorry.

                        DIL
          Make it up to me, then.

                        FERGUS
          How?

                        DIL
          Ask to meet me again.

                        FERGUS
          Will you meet me again?

                        DIL
          When?

                        FERGUS
          Whenever. Tonight.

She leans forward and kisses him. Fergus hears a wail of
catcalls behind him. He watches Dil go as the lift takes him
back up to the site.

EXT. HAIR SALON - EVENING.

Fergus, outside the hair salon. Dil, inside, is throwing off
her smock and walking toward him. All the girls are smiling.
Fergus looks from Dil to the girls as they approach.

                        FERGUS
          Do they know?

                        DIL
          Know what, honey?

                        FERGUS
          Know what I didn't know. And don't call
          me that.

                        DIL
          Can't help it, Jimmy. A girl has her
          feelings.

                        FERGUS
          Thing is, Dil, you're not a girl.



                                                          67.



                       DIL
          Details, baby, details.

                       FERGUS
          So they do know.

                       DIL
          All right, they do.

She takes his arm as they walk off.

                       FERGUS
          Don't.

                       DIL
          Sorry.

                       FERGUS
          I should have known, shouldn't I?

                       DIL
          Probably.

                       FERGUS
          Kind of wish I didn't.

                       DIL
          You can always pretend.

                       FERGUS
          That's true.... Your soldier knew, didn't
          he?

                       DIL
          Absolutely.

                       FERGUS
          Won't be quite the same though, will it?

                       DIL
          Are you pretending yet?

                       FERGUS
          I'm working on it.

Fergus hears a car following them, and turns around to look.

                       FERGUS
          There's Dave. He knew too.

                       DIL
          Stop it, Jimmy.



                                                          68.



                        FERGUS
          Am I becoming repetitious?

                        DIL
          A little.

                        FERGUS
          Sorry.

They reach her door. The car stops.

                        FERGUS
          Don't ask me in.

                        DIL
          Please, Jimmy.

                        FERGUS
          No. Can't pretend that much.

                        DIL
          I miss you, Jimmy.

                        FERGUS
          Should have stayed a girl.

                        DIL
          Don't be cruel.

                        FERGUS
          Okay. Be a good girl and go inside.

                        DIL
          Only if you kiss me.

Fergus kisses her. He looks at her open lips as if in
disbelief at himself.

                        FERGUS
          Happy now?

                        DIL
          Delirious.

She goes inside.

INT. HOSTEL - NIGHT.

Fergus walks into the room and turns on a small desk-light.
Then he hears a voice.

                        JUDE
          Hello, stranger.



                                                            69.



He sees Jude sitting in the corner. Her hair is now dark
brown.

                        JUDE
          You vanished.

He stares at her, says nothing.

                        JUDE
          What was it, Fergus? Did you blow the
          gaff on us or did you just fuck up?

                        FERGUS
          Leave me alone, Jude.

                        JUDE
          No. That's the last thing I'll do. You
          never asked what happened.

                        FERGUS
          I heard.

                        JUDE
          Eddie and Tinker died.

                        FERGUS
          I know.

                        JUDE
          Maguire and me got out by the skin of our
          teeth. No thanks to you.... What you
          think of the hair?

                        FERGUS
          Suits you.

She walks round the room.

                        JUDE
          Aye, I was sick of being blond. Needed a
          tougher look, if you know what I mean.

She lies down on the bed beside him, takes off a black
leather glove, and puts her hand on his crotch.

                        JUDE
          Fuck me, Fergus.

He takes her hand away.

                        JUDE
          Am I to take it that's a no?



                                                       70.



He says nothing.

                     JUDE
          We had a court-martial in your absence.
          They wanted to put a bullet in your head.
          I pleaded for clemency. Said we should
          find out what happened first. So what did
          happen?

                     FERGUS
          He ran. I couldn't shoot him in the back.
          I tried to catch him. He made it to the
          road and got hit by a Saracen.

                     JUDE
          So you did fuck up.

                     FERGUS
          Yes.

                     JUDE
          But you know what the thing is, Fergus?

                     FERGUS
          No, what is the thing?

                     JUDE
          You vanished quite effectively. Became
          Mister Nobody. And you've no idea how
          useful that could be.

                     FERGUS
          What do you mean?

                     JUDE
          We've got some plans here. And we'll need
          a Mister Nobody to execute them.

                     FERGUS
          No way, Jude. I'm out.

                     JUDE
          You're never out, Fergus.

She looks at him hard. He looks away.

                     JUDE
          Maybe you don't care whether you die or
          not. But consider the girl, Fergus. The
          wee black chick.

He leaps up from the bed.



                                                          71.



                    FERGUS
          Leave her out of this.

                    JUDE
          Jesus, Fergus, you're a walking cliche.
          You know we won't leave her out of this.
          But I'm glad to see you care.

She brings her lips close to his so they touch.

                    JUDE
          And I must admit I'm curious.

He grabs her hair and pulls her head back.

                    FERGUS
          What the fuck do you know, Jude?

She pulls a gun and sticks it between his teeth.

                    JUDE
          You fucking tell me, boy --

Fergus stares at her. Then says quietly:

                    FERGUS
          She's nobody. She likes me.

                    JUDE
          So I suppose a fuck is out of the
          question. Keep your head down, Fergus. No
          sudden moves. And not a whisper to her.
          You'll be hearing from us.

She kisses him briefly, with the gun at his temple.

                    JUDE
          Keep the faith.

She goes. Fergus stands in the darkness.

EXT. HAIR SALON - EVENING.

Fergus, walking toward the hair salon, flowers in his hand.

He stands outside watching, the flowers behind his back. Then
the chair turns and we see it is Jude.

Fergus freezes. He sees Jude looking at him, smiling
brightly, then talking back to Dil



                                                          72.



INT. HAIR SALON - EVENING.

                        JUDE
          He your boyfriend?

Jude, turning in the chair.

                        JUDE
          Lucky you.

INT. INDIAN RESTAURANT - NIGHT.

                        DIL
          Carnations.

                        FERGUS
          What?

                        DIL
          He'd bring me carnations.

                        FERGUS
          So I got it wrong, then.

                        DIL
          Not at all, honey.

                        FERGUS
          Don't.

                        DIL
          Okay.

She smiles brightly at something behind Fergus. He turns and
sees Jude is there. Fergus stands, suddenly.

He throws some money on the table, grabs her arm, and frog-
marches her out.

                        FERGUS
          Come on.

                        DIL
          Why, honey --

                        FERGUS
          Come on.

                        DIL
          You gonna tell me why?

                        FERGUS
          No.



                                                              73.



As they pass Jude, she smiles.

EXT. INDIAN RESTAURANT - NIGHT.

Outside the restaurant. Fergus marches Dil away.

                       DIL
          What's wrong, Jimmy? Tell me what's wrong
          --

                       FERGUS
          Not here.

They pass out of shot. In the background we see Jude rising.

INT. METRO - NIGHT.

Dil and Fergus making their way to their seats at the bar.

                       DIL
          You gonna tell me what it is?

A figure sitting down at the bar. It is Jude.

                       JUDE
          What was it?

                       DIL
          You know her, Jimmy?

                       JUDE
          Jimmy, is it? Do you know me, Jimmy?

                       FERGUS
          Dil, this is Jude.

                       DIL
          You following me?

                       JUDE
          Yeah. Just checking. He being nice to
          you, Dil?

                       DIL
          Ever so nice. Aren't you, Jimmy?

                       JUDE
          That's good. I'm glad. Young love, as
          they say.

                       DIL
          Absolutely. The younger the better.
          Doesn't come your way much, I suppose.



                                                    74.



                      JUDE
          Don't go looking for it, Dil.

                      DIL
          Well, maybe you'll get lucky. Someday.

                      JUDE
          A bit heavy on the powder, isn't she,
          Jimmy?

                      DIL
          A girl has to have a bit of glamour.

                      JUDE
          Absolutely. Long as she can keep it.
          Isn't that right, James...

She leaves. Dil watches her go.

                      DIL
          It's her, isn't it?

                      FERGUS
          What's her?

                      DIL
          She's the thing you had to tell me.

                      FERGUS
          Kind of.

                      DIL
          I'm sorry, you know that? I'm really
          sorry.

She looks at Col

                      DIL
          You see that, Col?

                      COL
          Saw it, Dil.

                      DIL
          Fuck it, is what I say.

                      COL
          Yeah. Fuck it, Dil.

                      DIL
          Fucking men, Col --



                                                              75.



                       COL
          Fuck 'em.

There are tears in her eyes. She stands.

                       DIL
          And fuck you, Jimmy --

She staggers out of the pub. Fergus sits there. There is an
expression in Col's eyes that makes Fergus feel very, very
small.

                       COL
          You could always make it up to her.

                       FERGUS
          How?

                       COL
          When a girl runs out like that, she
          generally wants to be followed.

                       FERGUS
          She's not a girl, Col --

                       COL
          Whatever you say.

But Fergus rises and walks out.

EXT. METRO - NIGHT.

A figure standing down the alleyway, smoking. Fergus looks
toward it, but Jude is standing there, waiting.

                       JUDE
          She went that way --

Jude grabs his arm.

                       JUDE
          But you come with me.

She draws him down an alley where the same car is waiting.
They get inside.

ANOTHER CAR - BY THE PUB.

Dil, sitting inside a taxi watching Fergus and Jude getting
in the car.



                                                            76.



INT. CAR - NIGHT.

In the moving car. Jude is driving, Maguire next to her.
Fergus sits in the back.

                     FERGUS
          So it was you all the time.

                     MAGUIRE
          Who'd you think it was?

                     FERGUS
          I thought it was Dave.

                     MAGUIRE
          And who's Dave when he's at home?

                     FERGUS
          He's at home.

                     MAGUIRE
          Should blow you away, you know that?

                     FERGUS
          I know that.

Maguire stubs his cigarette out on Fergus's hand, then whacks
him on the teeth with his closed fist.

                     MAGUIRE
          I'm getting emotional. And I don't want
          to get fucking emotional -- you
          understand, Hennessy?

                     FERGUS
          I understand.

                     MAGUIRE
          Fuck you, too --

Jude drives. Fergus looks through the back window at the
street outside.

                     JUDE
          Leave him alone, Peter. He's in love.

                     MAGUIRE
          That true, Fergus? You in love?

                     FERGUS
          Absolutely.



                                                             77.



                           MAGUIRE
             And what's she like between the sheets?

                           FERGUS
             Definitely unusual.

                           MAGUIRE
             And who is she?

                           FERGUS
             Just a girl.

                           MAGUIRE
             And you know what'll happen if you fuck
             up again, don't you?

                           FERGUS
             Aye, I do, Peter.

                           MAGUIRE
             Good.

EXT. REGENCY SQUARE - NIGHT.

The car draws to a halt in a sedate square. Several doors
down is the entrance to what looks like a sedate conservative
club.

In the car, Maguire turns off the engine. He nods toward the
building.

                           MAGUIRE
             So what do you think that is, Hennessy?

                           FERGUS
             A hotel?

                           MAGUIRE
             It's a knocking-shop. Tres discreet, huh?
             He visits his ladies on Tuesday and
             Thursday nights and Saturday mornings.
             His security's in the car beyond.

He nods toward a car, a Daimler, parked some distance away.
Fergus looks from the window to the car.

                           FERGUS
             Who is he?

                           MAGUIRE
             Doesn't matter who he is. He is what we
             would call a legitimate target.



                                                          78.



                       FERGUS
          Thank God for that.

                       MAGUIRE
          You being cynical, Hennessy?

                       FERGUS
          Hope not.

                       MAGUIRE
          Good. So what do you think?

                       FERGUS
          Whoever hits him'll be hit, if those men
          are any good. And I presume you can't get
          in.

                       MAGUIRE
          Right.

                       FERGUS
          So it's on the street.

                       MAGUIRE
          Right.

                       FERGUS
          Kind of suicide, isn't it?

Jude turns around to look at him.

                       FERGUS
          But, then, I don't have a choice.

                       JUDE
          Och, you do, Fergie.

                       FERGUS
          Of course. I forgot.

                       JUDE
          Come on, Fergie. A rehearsal.

Jude and Fergus get out of the car. They walk down the
street, down from the brothel-cum-club, where there is a cafe-
bar with some tables outside.

EXT. REGENCY SQUARE - NIGHT.

Fergus and Jude, crossing the street.

                       JUDE
          You keep your mind on the job, boy --



                                                              79.



                    FERGUS
          And then you'll leave her out of it?

                    JUDE
          Aye. Then we'll leave her be.

They take their seats by the tables. We can see the brothel
down the way.

                    JUDE
          He's arthritic. Takes him two minutes to
          get to the door.

She checks her watch. Fergus is sweating.

                    FERGUS
          And what if I say no?

                    JUDE
          You know what. Go.

Down by the brothel, the door swings open.

Fergus walks like any pedestrian down toward the brothel.
There is an old, portly gent in a City suit emerging from it.
The car by the pavement kicks into action and the door opens.

Fergus quickens his pace.

Jude, by the cafe, watches. Fergus, walking.

The gent makes his way, with gout-ridden slowness, across the
pavement, through the passersby, toward the car.

A burly security man emerging from the car, walking toward
the old gent.

Fergus reaches the car just before he does, and passes
between him and the open door. The old gent's stomach brushes
Fergus's elbow.

                    GENT
          Pardon me, young man --

Fergus walks on.

Jude, from the cafe, watches -- Fergus walking on, the old
man being eased with painstaking care inside the Daimler.
Then the door closing and the Daimler pulling off.

When the Daimler has passed Fergus, he turns around and walks
back.



                                                           80.



Jude smiles and leaps up as he approaches.

                       JUDE
          You were made for this.

                       FERGUS
          Was I?

                       JUDE
          Perfect.

                       FERGUS
          And what happens then?

                       JUDE
          We'll be on the other side. We'll move
          when you do.

                       FERGUS
          And what if you don't?

                       JUDE
          Fergus, I think you don't trust me.

                       FERGUS
          You may be right.

                       JUDE
          Stay late at your work tomorrow night and
          I'll bring you the gear.

Jude begins to walk away.

                       FERGUS
          Jude?

                       JUDE
          Yes?

                       FERGUS
          Who's the old geezer?

                       JUDE
          Some judge...

She walks off, crosses the road to Maguire, in the car.
Fergus turns around to see Dil in front of the cafe. She goes
inside; he follows.

                       FERGUS
          Why'd you follow me, Dil?



                                                              81.



                      DIL
          Was jealous, Jimmy.

She downs a drink and motions for another. She seems high.

                      FERGUS
          Shouldn't be, Dil

                      DIL
          Why shouldn't I be jealous?

There are tears streaming down her face. He takes his hand
and begins to wipe her face.

                      DIL
          Don't. My makeup.

She sits down; he joins her.

                      DIL
          She own you, Jimmy?

                      FERGUS
          Yes.

                      DIL
          She from Scotland too?

                      FERGUS
          You could say that.

                      DIL
          And you're not going to tell me more?

                      FERGUS
          I can't.

He wipes the tears from her face with a tissue then dabs the
tissue in her drink and wipes some more.

                      DIL
          What you doing, Jimmy?

                      FERGUS
          I'm not sure.

                      DIL
          Do you like me even a little bit?

                      FERGUS
          More than that.

Dil's face, staring at him.



                                                            82.



                           FERGUS
             Come on, let's go for a walk.

She allows herself to be led out.

EXT. HAIR SALON - NIGHT.

Dil and Fergus walking. Fergus stops her by the window.

                           FERGUS
             You do something for me, Dil?

                           DIL
             Anything.

                           FERGUS
             You'd do anything for me?

                           DIL
             Afraid so.

                           FERGUS
             You got the keys to the shop?

They walk inside.

INT. HAIR SALON - NIGHT.

Dil and Fergus standing in the darkness.

                           DIL
             You want another haircut, baby?

                           FERGUS
             No. Sit down.

He sits her down in one of the chairs.

                           FERGUS
             You'd do anything for me?

Dil nods.

                           DIL
             Anything.

Fergus takes up a scissors to snip at her hair. Her head
leaps back.

                           DIL
             No way --



                                                             83.



                        FERGUS
          You said anything, Dil

                        DIL
          A girl has to draw the line somewhere --

                        FERGUS
          Want to change you to a man, Dil...

She stares at him.

                        DIL
          Why?

                        FERGUS
          It's a secret.

                        DIL
          You'd like me better that way, Jimmy?

                        FERGUS
          Yes.

                        DIL
          And you wouldn't leave me?

                        FERGUS
          No.

                        DIL
          You promise?

                        FERGUS
          I promise.

She takes a breath.

                        DIL
          Go on, then.

Fergus begins to cut.

CLOSE-UP ON DlL'S FACE as her hair is shorn. Tears stream
down her cheeks.

                        DIL
          You're no good at this, Jimmy.

                        FERGUS
          I'm sorry.

But he keeps cutting. He gives Dil a short, cropped military
cut like Jody's.



                                                              84.



                    DIL
          You want to make me look like him...

                    FERGUS
          No. Want to make you into something new.
          That nobody recognizes...

She looks in the mirror at it in the dark.

                    DIL
          Don't recognize myself, Jimmy.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

Dil enters, with her new haircut. She goes to turn on the
light. He stops her hand.

                    FERGUS
          No.

She looks at her hand on his.

                    FERGUS
          Better in the dark.

Her fingers close around his.

                    DIL
          So it's true, then?

                    FERGUS
          What?

                    DIL
          You like me better like this.

                    FERGUS
          Yes.

She brings her lips to his neck. He lets them stay there. His
hands travel up to her blouse. He begins to undo the buttons.

                    DIL
          Oh, Jimmy --

Slowly the blouse slips down, exposing her male torso. She
falls down to her knees and tugs at his belt.

                    FERGUS
          No. No. Dil... get up...

He raises her to her feet and leads her toward the bed. She
stretches languorously down on it.



                                                              85.


He unzips her skirt slowly, and draws it off. She turns on
the bed sexily, her face to the mattress. She is wearing
suspender-belts underneath her skirt.

                        DIL
          Baby...

But Fergus stands and walks quietly over to the wardrobe
where the soldier's things are. Dil on the bed, slowly turns.

                        DIL
          What are you doing, honey...

We see Fergus from her point of view, coming toward her with
Jody's white cricket shirt, glowing eerily in the dark.

                        FERGUS
          Don't call me that --

                        DIL
          Sorry. What you doing?

Fergus draws her slowly up to a standing position.

                        FERGUS
          Try this on, Dil

He wraps the shirt around her.

                        DIL
          Why?

                        FERGUS
          For me.

                        DIL
          For you...

She kisses him.

EXT. SMALL HOTEL - NIGHT.

Fergus leading Dil, dressed in Jody's cricket clothes, down
the street and inside.

                        DIL
          Why are we going here, Jimmy?

                        FERGUS
          Look on it like a honeymoon.



                                                              86.



INT. SMALL HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT.

From above, we see the figures of Fergus and Dil, sleeping on
a double bed, both fully clothed. Fergus smokes, then puts
out the cigarette.

Time lapse. The light gradually fills the room. Fergus wakes.
Looks at the bedside clock, and very gingerly rises, puts on
his coat, and walks out.

EXT. SITE - EVENING.

A car pulls up at the site. Jude gets out. She has a satchel
in her hand.

INT. SITE - EVENING.

Fergus looking down a ladder-staircase at Jude.

                        JUDE
          You a handyman, Fergie?

                        FERGUS
          I take pride in my work.

                        JUDE
          I sincerely hope so.

Fergus climbs down a ladder to Jude; she hands him something
from the bag.

                        JUDE
          Tools of the trade.

She kisses him. Fergus looks at her expressionlessly.

                        JUDE
          And forget about the girl.

Fergus opens what Jude has given him -- looking inside. There
is a gun wrapped in an oilcloth.

INT. SMALL HOTEL - NIGHT.

Fergus enters. The room is empty. He calls.

                        FERGUS
          Dil?

No reply. He runs outside.



                                                              87.



EXT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

Fergus looks up at her building, but the lights are off in
her flat. The sound of feet behind him. He turns and sees Dil
walking toward him, a bottle in her hand. He runs toward her.

                        FERGUS
          Dil! Dil! What the fuck are you doing
          here?

                        DIL
          I'm going home!

                        FERGUS
          Told you to stay in the hotel!

                        DIL
          Thought you was fooling me. Thought you
          was leaving me.

They are tussling in the darkness of the park. She is very
drunk.

                        FERGUS
          I had to go to work!

                        DIL
          Stayed all day in that room thinking
          every noise was you. There's something
          you're not telling me, Jimmy.

He takes her arm.

                        FERGUS
          Come on...

                        DIL
          No! I'm going home...

Fergus and Dil, on the stairs up to Dil's flat.

                        DIL
          So tell me.

                        FERGUS
          I was trying to get out of something.

                        DIL
          No! Tell me everything, Jimmy.

Fergus looks at her.



                                                             88.



                       FERGUS
             You got to forget you ever saw me, Dil.

                       DIL
             You mean that?

                       FERGUS
             Yes.

And she suddenly faints into his arms. As if on cue.

                       FERGUS
             Stop it, would you?

There is no response. He shakes her.

                       FERGUS
             Give it over, Dil, for fuck's sake --

Still no response. He grows alarmed. He slaps her cheek. She
opens her eyes slowly.

                       DIL
             Sorry. I get nervous. I got this blood
             condition. Just help me inside, Jimmy,
             then I'll be all right.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

He walks in holding her. Leans her against the wall, then
goes to the window to check the street outside.

She takes a large slug from a bottle of whiskey.

                       FERGUS
             You heard what I said, Dil?

                       DIL
             My pills...

She points weakly to a cabinet through the open door of the
bathroom.

                       FERGUS
             What pills?

                       DIL
             Prescription. For my condition.

                       FERGUS
             What condition?



                                                             89.



                         DIL
           My condition. Ennui.

He goes and gets the pills.

She takes a handful of pills. She drinks from the whiskey
bottle.

                         FERGUS
           Are you supposed to take that many?

                         DIL
           Only in times of extreme stress.

She walks around the room, drinking, then sits down.

                         DIL
           See, they all say good-bye sometime.
           'Cept for him.

She looks at the picture of Jody. Then she looks at Fergus.

                         FERGUS
           Are you all right, Dil?

                         DIL
           I will be.

She stares straight ahead, the bottle clutched in her hands
between her knees.

                         DIL
           Go on, then.

Fergus walks slowly toward the door.

                         FERGUS
           Good-bye, Dil

                         DIL
           Jimmy?

                         FERGUS
           What?

                         DIL
           Don't go like that.

She looks at him, standing up. Something incredibly
attractive about her.

                         DIL
           Can't help what I am.



                                                              90.



He walks slowly toward her. He kisses her, on the lips.

We see the photograph with the soldier's smiling face. Fergus
looks from it to her. She seems to be in a sweet narcotic
haze. She reaches out her hand and strokes his.

                       DIL
          Knew you had a heart...

Fergus sits down on the bed. Dil is lying back on it.

                       FERGUS
          Dil Can I tell you something? I knew your
          man.

                       DIL
          You knew which man?

                       FERGUS
          Your soldier.

                       DIL
          You knew my Jody?

She still strokes his hand. Her voice is dreamily slurred,
her eyes far away.

                       FERGUS
          Lifted him from a carnival in Belfast.
          Held him hostage for three days.

                       DIL
          You knew my Jody?

                       FERGUS
          Are you listening?

Dil smiles woozily.

                       DIL
          Yes.

                       FERGUS
          I got the order to shoot him. Before I
          could do it he ran. Ran into a tank and
          died.

                       DIL
          Died...

                       FERGUS
          Did you hear me?



                                                             91.



                        DIL
          You killed my Jody?

                        FERGUS
          In a manner of speaking.

                        DIL
          It was you...

She is not rational. She is smiling, far away somewhere.

                        FERGUS
          You should scream. You should beat my
          head off.

She woozily tries to hit him round the face.

                        DIL
          You killed my Jody

                        FERGUS
          No.

                        DIL
          You didn't.

                        FERGUS
          I suppose I tried.

                        DIL
          You tried.

                        FERGUS
          Don't you want to kill me?

Dil raises an unsteady hand and points it at him.

                        DIL
          Bang...

He strokes her cheek. She says very slowly and sleepily

                        DIL
          Don't leave me tonight. Might kill me,
          too.

                        FERGUS
          Okay.

Her eyes close. She falls into a deep sleep. Fergus looks
down at her, almost fondly.



                                                             92.



INT. DIL'S FLAT - MORNING.

They are lying on the bed together, fully clothed. Dil wakes.
She rises very quietly and goes to his coat, thrown across a
chair. She searches through the pockets and takes out the
gun.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - MORNING.

Jude in bed. An alarm sounds; she reaches to turn it off.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Dil takes several silk stockings out of a drawer and ties
them very securely to each corner of the brass bed. She ties
them round both of Fergus's feet, very gently, so as not to
wake him.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - MORNING.

Jude, in front of a mirror, getting ready.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

She draws one of Fergus's hands up, very gingerly, and ties
that securely to the upright. She ties the other and is
drawing it upward when he wakes. She jerks the silk stocking
so it is secure.

                       FERGUS
             What the fuck --

Dil speaks unnaturally quietly.

                       DIL
             So tell me what you're doing, Jimmy.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - MORNING.

Jude, fully dressed. She takes a gun from under the bed and
slips it in her handbag.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - MORNING.

Dil crouching beside Fergus, his gun in her hand.

                       DIL
             Didn't really listen last night. I heard
             but I didn't listen.

Fergus, staring at her. He tries to pull on the bindings.



                                                              93.



                     DIL
          That won't do you no good. Dil knows how
          to tie a body.

She stands up, still pointing the gun at Fergus.

                     DIL
          Wondered why you came on to me like that
          when you gave me the look.

                     FERGUS
          He asked me to see were you all right.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Jude on the street. Maguire's car pulls up rapidly and she
gets inside.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

                     DIL
          See, I fix on anyone that's nice to me.
          Just the littlest bit nice and I'm yours.

                     FERGUS
          Stop it, Dil --

                     DIL
          Just don't kick Dil and she'll be
          touched. Be nice to her and she'll be
          yours forever.

She looks at him, tears in her eyes.

                     DIL
          See, I should blow you away, Jimmy. But I
          can't do that. Yet.

                     FERGUS
          Let me go, Dil

He drags at his bindings.

                     DIL
          Why?

                     FERGUS
          Got to be somewhere.

                     DIL
          Try and go, then.



                                                              94.



EXT. STREET BY BROTHEL - DAY

The figure of the judge in the window. Outline of a woman.
Jude and Maguire are in the car, parked across the street.
They look toward a paper seller.

                       MAGUIRE
          Where the fuck is he? Christ --

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Fergus pulls furiously at his bindings.

                       FERGUS
          Let me go for fuck's sake, Dil -- or
          they'll be here

                       DIL
          Let them come then.

IN THE CAR. OUTSIDE BROTHEL.

                       JUDE
          Can't stay here, Peter -- drive around
          once more --

He drives off.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Fergus collapsed back on the bed, exhausted.

                       DIL
          Just want your company for a little while
          longer...

EXT. STREET BY BROTHEL - DAY

Maguire's car driving round once more. No sign of Fergus.

                       MAGUIRE
          That fucker's dead --

                       JUDE
          No, we are.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Fergus strains and roars from the bed.

                       FERGUS
          You don't know what you're doing, Dil --



                                                              95.



                        DIL
          Never did...

MAGUIRE'S POINT OF VIEW -- the brothel door opening. The
elderly judge comes out. The car with his security men guns
up.

                        MAGUIRE
          Give me the shooter, Jude --

                        JUDE
          You're crazy --

                        MAGUIRE
          Give me the fucking shooter!

He grabs it from her pocket. Throws open the door and runs
across the street. Jude dives into the driver's seat.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Fergus, pulling at his bindings.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE BROTHEL.

The judge walking toward the open door of the car, held open
by his goon. Maguire, running toward him, gun in hand. The
goon sees him. Maguire shoots as he runs. Once, twice, three
times, four. The judge falls. The goon, hit in the arm, pulls
an Uzi and returns fire. Maguire hit, still shooting. Other
goons tear from the car. Mayhem, screaming. Jude hits the
pedal on her car and screeches off. Maguire, dead.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - DAY

Dil dressed in the soldier's cricket clothes. She looks like
a sweet little boy. She places a cassette in the tape deck --
"The Crying Game" song. She comes to the bed, and points the
gun at Fergus's head.

                        DIL
          You like me now, Jimmy?

                        FERGUS
          I like you, Dil --

                        DIL
          Give me a bit more, baby, a bit more.

                        FERGUS
          More what?



                                                           96.



                       DIL
          More endearments.

                       FERGUS
          I like you, DIl

                       DIL
          Love me.

                       FERGUS
          Yes.

                       DIL
          Tell me you love me.

                       FERGUS
          Whatever you say, Dil.

                       DIL
          Then say it.

                       FERGUS
          Love you, Dil.

                       DIL
          You do?

                       FERGUS
          Yeah.

                       DIL
          What would you do for me?

                       FERGUS
          Anything.

She begins to cry and lays the gun gently on his chest.

                       DIL
          Say it again.

                       FERGUS
          I'd do anything for you, Dil.

She pulls on his bindings to release him.

EXT. STREET.

Two police cars, sirens wailing.



                                                              97.



INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Dil's face, close to Fergus's, as the stockings that bound
his hands are nearly undone.

                        DIL
          And you'll never leave me?

                        FERGUS
          Never.

                        DIL
          I know you're lying, Jimmy, but it's nice
          to hear it.

His arm is free. He strokes her hair.

                        FERGUS
          I'm sorry, Dil.

She shudders with weeping. The music of the song plays in the
background.

Jude walking through the open door, arms extended, holding a
gun.

                        JUDE
          You stupid shit -- Once was bad enough.
          But twice.

Dil rises from the bed and points her gun at Jude.

                        DIL
          You didn't knock, honey --

Dil fires, hits Jude. Jude falls and is writhing on the
floor.

                        FERGUS
          Dil!

                        JUDE
          Get that thing off me, Fergus --

Dil walks closer, holding the gun and pointing it at Jude.

                        DIL
          What was that she called you, Jimmy?

                        FERGUS
          Fergus.



                                                             98.



                    DIL
          What's Fergus?

                    FERGUS
          It's my name, Dil --

                    DIL
          What happened to Jimmy?

                    JUDE
          I said get it off me, Fergus --

Jude, on the floor, reaches for her gun. Manages to grab it.

                    DIL
          What's she going to do, Jimmy? She going
          to blow you away?

Dil shoots again, like a child, playing with a toy. She hits
Jude in her gun shoulder. Jude spins one way, the gun the
other.

                    DIL
          Was she there too? When you got my Jody?

Fergus screams


                    FERGUS
          Dil!!!

                    DIL
          I asked you a question, honey -- were you
          there too --

                    JUDE
          You sick bitch --

As she raises the gun, Dil shoots her repeatedly, saying:

                    DIL
          You was there, wasn't you? You used those
          tits and that ass to get him, didn't you?

Fergus screams from the bed. He rips free his other arm. Dil
shoots Jude in the throat, and she falls dead, covered in
blood. Dil turns the gun on Fergus.

                    DIL
          She was there, wasn't she?



                                                          99.



                        FERGUS
          She was --

                        DIL
          And she used her tits and that cute
          little ass to get him, didn't she?

                        FERGUS
          Yes.

                        DIL
          Tell me what she wore.

                        FERGUS
          Can't remember...

Dil points the gun at him, squeezing on the trigger. Then she
stops.

                        DIL
          Can't do it, Jimmy. He won't let me.

She looks at the picture; walks over and sits down in front
of it.

                        DIL
          You won't let me, Jody --

She raises the gun and places it in her mouth. Fergus takes
it gently from her mouth and places it on the table. He lifts
her up by the shoulders.

                        FERGUS
          You've got to go now, Dil --

                        DIL
          Do I?

                        FERGUS
          Yes. Now.

                        DIL
          Am I in trouble, Jimmy?

                        FERGUS
          Not if you go.

                        DIL
          Will I see you again?

                        FERGUS
          You will, Dil



                                                             100.



                        DIL
          Promise?

                        FERGUS
          I promise.

                        DIL
          Where am I to go, Jimmy?

                        FERGUS
          The Metro.

                        DIL
          Meet Col --

                        FERGUS
          Yes. Say hello to Col --

He leads her out the door. Fergus goes back into the room,
past Jude's body. Looks out the window to where he can see
Dil staggering down the street, through the crowds that have
gathered. The wail of police sirens coming closer. He watches
Dil run off, with her funny walk. Then looks down and sees
the cop cars pushing through the knot of people around the
house. He picks up the gun, wipes it with a rag to remove
Dil's fingerprints. He turns to the picture of the soldier;
talks to it.

                        FERGUS
          You should have stayed at home.

He sits in the chair by the window, waiting.

                                                FADE TO BLACK.

INT. PRISON VISITING ROOM - DAY

FADE UP to reveal a large interior, with light streaming in
the windows. Large barred doors open and a group of women
come through, with parcels, children in tow, etc. Among them
is Dil, looking resplendent. She walks past the rows of
convicts with their families, up to a glass cage, where
Fergus sits, waiting.

                        DIL
          Got you the multivitamins and the iron
          tablets, hon --

                        FERGUS
          Don't call me that --



                                                        101.



                        DIL
          Sorry, love. Now, the white ones are
          magnesium supplement --

                        FERGUS
          Stop it, Dil --

                        DIL
          I've got to keep you healthy, Jimmy. I'm
          counting the days. Two thousand three
          hundred and thirty-four left.

                        FERGUS
          Thirty-five.

                        DIL
          I'm sorry, darling. I keep forgetting the
          leap year. What am I supposed to call you
          then, Jimmy?

                        FERGUS
          Fergus.

                        DIL
          Fergus. Fergus my love, light of my life -
          -

                        FERGUS
          Please, Dil --

                        DIL
          Can't help it. You're doing time for me.
          No greater love, as the man says. Wish
          you'd tell me why.

                        FERGUS
          As the man said, it's in my nature.

                        DIL
          What's that supposed to mean?

She shakes her head.

                        FERGUS
          Well, there was this scorpion, you see.
          And he wants to go across the river. But
          he can't swim. So he goes to this frog,
          who can swim, and he says to him, "Excuse
          me, Mr. Froggy..."



                                                           102.



CAMERA PULLS BACK, and as Fergus tells the story of the
scorpion and the frog, the music comes up -- "Stand By Your
Man."

                                                    FADE OUT.



