




                        INCEPTION

       

                        Written by

                     Christopher Nolan




                                            SHOOTING SCRIPT
  FADE IN:

  DAWN. CRASHING SURF.

  The waves TOSS a BEARDED MAN onto wet sand. He lies there.

  A CHILD'S SHOUT makes him LIFT his head to see: a LITTLE
  BLONDE BOY crouching, back towards us, watching the tide eat
  a SANDCASTLE. A LITTLE BLONDE GIRL joins the boy. The Bearded
  Man tries to call them, but they RUN OFF, FACES UNSEEN. He
  COLLAPSES.

  The barrel of a rifle ROLLS the Bearded Man onto his back. A
  JAPANESE SECURITY GUARD looks down at him, then calls up the
  beach to a colleague leaning against a JEEP. Behind them is a
  cliff, and on top of that, a JAPANESE CASTLE.

  INT. ELEGANT DINING ROOM, JAPANESE CASTLE - LATER

  The Security Guard waits as an ATTENDANT speaks to an ELDERLY
  JAPANESE MAN sitting at the dining table, back to us.

                     ATTENDANT
               (in Japanese)
           He was delirious. But he asked for
           you by name. And...
               (to the Security Guard)
           Show him.

                     SECURITY GUARD
               (in Japanese)
           He was carrying nothing but this...

  He puts a HANDGUN on the table. The Elderly Man keeps eating.

                     SECURITY GUARD
           ...and this.

  The Security Guard places a SMALL PEWTER CONE alongside the
  gun. The Elderly Man STOPS eating. Picks up the cone.

                     ELDERLY JAPANESE MAN
               (in Japanese)
           Bring him here. And some food.

  INT. SAME - MOMENTS LATER

  The Elderly Man watches the Bearded Man WOLF down his food.
  He SLIDES the handgun down the table towards him.

                     ELDERLY JAPANESE MAN
               (in English)
           Are you here to kill me?

  The Bearded Man glances up at him, then back to his food.
                                                          2.

  The Elderly Japanese Man picks up the cone between thumb and
  forefinger.

                    ELDERLY JAPANESE MAN
          I know what this is.

  He SPINS it onto a table- it CIRCLES gracefully across the
  polished ebony... a SPINNING TOP.

                    ELDERLY JAPANESE MAN
          I've seen one before. Many, many
          years ago...

  The Elderly Japanese Man STARES at the top mesmerized.

                    ELDERLY JAPANESE MAN
          It belonged to a man I met in a
          half-remembered dream...

  MOVE IN on the GRACEFULLY SPINNING TOP...

                     ELDERLY JAPANESE MAN
          A man possessed of some radical
          notions...

The Elderly Japanese Man STARES, remembering...

                    COBB (V.O.)
          What's the most resilient parasite?

                                                    CUT TO:

INT. SAME ELEGANT DINING ROOM - NIGHT (YEARS EARLIER)

The speaker, COBB, is 35, handsome, tailored. A young
Japanese man, SAITO, eats as he listens.

                    COBB
          A bacteria? A virus?

Cobb gestures at their feast with his wine glass-

                    COBB
          An intestinal worm?

Saito's fork pauses, mid-air. Cobb GRINS. A third man is at
the table- ARTHUR. He jumps in to save the pitch-

                    ARTHUR
          What Mr. Cobb is trying to say-

                     COBB
          An idea.

Saito looks at Cobb, curious.
                                                3.

                    COBB
          Resilient, highly contagious. Once
          an idea's taken hold in the brain
          it's almost impossible to
          eradicate. A person can cover it
          up, ignore it- but it stays there.

                    SAITO
          But surely-to forget...?

                    COBB
          Information, yes. But an idea?
          Fully formed, understood? That
          sticks...
              (taps forehead)
          In there, somewhere.

                    SAITO
          For someone like you to steal?

                    ARTHUR
          Yes. In the dream state, conscious
          defenses are lowered and your
          thoughts become vulnerable to
          theft. It's called extraction.

                    COBB
          But, Mr. Saito, we can train your
          subconscious to defend itself from
          even the most skilled extractor.

                    SAITO
          How can you do that?

                    COBB
          Because I am the most skilled
          extractor. I know how to search
          your mind and find your secrets. I
          know the tricks, and I can teach
          them to your subconscious so that
          even when you're asleep, your guard
          is never down.

Cobb leans forwards. Holding Saito's gaze.

                    COBB
          But if I'm going to help you, you
          have to be completely open to me.
          I'll need to know my way around
          your thoughts better than your
          wife, your analyst, anyone.
              (gestures around)
          If this is a dream and you've got a
          safe full of secrets, I need to
          know what's in that safe. For this
          to work, you have to let me in.
                                                            4.

Saito gives this a flicker of a smile. Rises. A BODYGUARD
opens double doors which give onto a LAVISH PARTY.

                    SAITO
          Gentlemen. Enjoy your evening as I
          consider your proposal.

They watch Saito leave. Arthur turns to Cobb, worried-

                      ARTHUR
          He knows.

Cobb motions silence. A TREMOR starts, they steady their
glasses, Cobb glances at his watch- THE SECOND HAND IS
FROZEN.

                    ARTHUR
          What's going on up there?

And we-

                                                    CUT TO:

FILTHY BATHROOM - DAY (FEELS LIKE DIFFERENT TIME)

Cobb, ASLEEP, SITTING IN A CHAIR AT THE END OF A STEAMING
BATH. The chair is up on a cabinet- the bottom of the legs
level with the rim of the tub.

A sweating man (40's) watches over Cobb. This is NASH. A
distant EXPLOSION rumbles through the room. Nash moves to the
window, parts the curtains. Outside: a CHAOTIC DEVELOPING-WORLD
CITY- the street filled with RIOTERS- SMASHING, BURNING.

Nash checks Cobb's left wrist: above his watch, tape holds
TWO THIN YELLOW TUBES in place. Nash looks at Cobb's watch-
THE SECOND HAND CRAWLS UNNATURALLY SLOWLY.

Nash follows the tubes to a SILVER BRIEFCASE at Arthur's
feet: ARTHUR IS ASLEEP in an armchair. Tubes connect the
briefcase to Arthur's wrist.

Nash follows another set of tubes from the briefcase to where
they pass under the door to the bedroom. Through the crack of
the door, Nash sees SAITO ASLEEP on the bed, tubes running to
his wrist. BOOM- a closer EXPLOSION, and we-

                                                    CUT TO:

INT. BULLET TRAIN COMPARTMENT - DAY (FEELS LIKE DIFFERENT TIME)

Nash, ASLEEP. Head ROCKING AGAINST THE WINDOW as the train
BUMPS OVER A ROUGH PIECE OF TRACK.
                                                           5.

A Japanese Man, TODASHI (18) watches Nash nervously. He
checks Nash's wrist: TWO YELLOW TUBES CONNECT NASH WITH THREE
OTHER SLEEPING MEN IN THE COMPARTMENT: COBB, ARTHUR, SAITO.

Todashi checks his watch: THE SECOND HAND TICKS IN REAL TIME.
Another TRAIN PASSES in the opposite direction with a MIGHTY
WHUMP- Todashi's eyes FLY to Nash's sleeping face-

NASH JERKS WITH THE MOVEMENT OF THE TRAIN, and we-

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. FILTHY BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Another EXPLOSION- Nash CHECKS the sleeping Cobb and we-

                                                     CUT TO:

EXT. ROOFTOP TERRACES, JAPANESE CASTLE - NIGHT

A LOW TREMOR RUMBLES THROUGH THE CASTLE. Cobb and Arthur
steady themselves against the wooden rail. Several TILES and
pieces of MASONRY fall. Below them a BLACK SEA churns. Other
GUESTS wander the massive terraces.

                    ARTHUR
          Saito knows. He's playing with us.

                    COBB
          I can get it here. The
          information's in the safe- he
          looked right at it when I mentioned
          secrets.

Arthur nods. Then spots someone over Cobb's shoulder.

                    ARTHUR
          What's she doing here, Cobb?

Cobb turns to see a beautiful woman, elegantly dressed,
staring out at the sea. This is MAL. Cobb watches her.

                    COBB
          You just get to your room. I'll
          take care of the rest.

                    ARTHUR
          See that you do. We're here to
          work.

Arthur brushes past Mal, shaking his head. She nears Cobb.
Looks out at the DROP. The WIND WHIPS HER HAIR-

                    MAL
          If I jumped, would I survive?
                                                           6.

                    COBB
          With a clean dive, perhaps. Mal,
          why are you here?

She turns to look at him. Amused.

                    MAL
          I thought you might be missing
          me...

She smiles. He leans in, mesmerized.

                    COBB
          I am. But I can't trust you
          anymore.

She stares up at him, inviting.

                       MAL
          So what?

INT. BEDROOM SUITE, JAPANESE CASTLE - MOMENTS LATER

Mal sips champagne as she studies a painting by Francis
Bacon.

                    MAL
          Looks like Arthur's taste.

Cobb is looking down through the window at the GUARDS
patrolling the castle at ground level.

                    COBB
          Actually, Mr. Saito is partial to
          postwar British painters.

He turns to Mal, donning a pair of black leather gloves.

                    COBB
          Would you sit down?

Mal lowers herself gracefully into a leather wingback chair.
Cobb approaches, pulls out a length of BLACK ROPE and kneels
at Mal's feet. She looks down at him.

                       MAL
          Tell me...

Cobb TIES the rope around the CHAIR LEGS.

                    MAL
          Do the children miss me?

Cobb pauses. He lets his gloved fingers lightly touch Mal's
ankle. He looks up at her.
                                                            7.

                    COBB
          You can't imagine.

Mal looks away, uncomfortable. Cobb gets to his feet, letting
out the rope as he moves back to the window.

                    MAL
          What're you doing?

Cobb tosses the rope out-

                    COBB
          Getting some air.

He tugs on the rope, testing. The weight of the chair, with
Mal on it, holds.

                    COBB
          Stay seated. Please.

And with that, he JUMPS. Mal considers the open window.

EXT. JAPANESE CASTLE WALL - CONTINUOUS

Cobb RAPPELS down the wall, darting past windows. He stops at
a particular one. Gets out a glass cutter-

Suddenly he starts DROPPING-

INT. BEDROOM SUITE, JAPANESE CASTLE - CONTINUOUS

The EMPTY CHAIR SLIDES across the floor- WEDGES under the
window-

EXT. JAPANESE CASTLE WALL - CONTINUOUS

Cobb JOLTS to a stop 15 ft. lower. He looks up at the bedroom
window. Shakes his head. Starts climbing back.

INT. KITCHEN, JAPANESE CASTLE - MOMENTS LATER

Cobb drops silently from the window into the darkened
kitchen. He pulls a PISTOL from his belt, screwing a SILENCER
onto the barrel as he GLIDES across the room.

INT. HALL, JAPANESE CASTLE-CONTINUOUS

Cobb SLIPS through the shadows towards a GUARD stationed at
the head of a GRAND STAIRCASE...

The Guard HEARS something- TURNS- PEERS into the shadows...

Cobb FLASHES out of the shadows, silenced pistol up, AIMING-
                                                          8.

PHHT- head shot- the Guard starts to drop... but Cobb is
already there to CATCH him, sliding on his knees and lowering
the Guard SILENTLY to the floor.

INT. DINING ROOM, JAPANESE CASTLE - CONTINUOUS

Cobb moves to a PAINTING. With practiced hands he removes it
from the wall, revealing a SAFE. Cobb spins the dial, pulls
it OPEN, GRABS an envelope from within, stuffs it into his
waistband, where there is already an IDENTICAL ENVELOPE.

LIGHTS COME ON. Cobb freezes.

                    SAITO (O.S.)
          Turn around.

Cobb turns. At the far end of the room: Saito. Next to him is
Mal, gun in hand. She smiles at Cobb.

                    MAL
          The gun, Dom.

Cobb doesn't move. Mal motions outside- two GUARDS drag
Arthur into the room. Mal puts the gun to his head.

                    MAL
          Please.

Cobb slowly places his gun at his end of the long table, then
SLIDES it along the polished ebony. It comes to rest HALFWAY
down the length or the table.

                    SAITO
          Now the envelope, Mr. Cobb.

Cobb reaches into his waistband, removes ONE of the
envelopes, SLIDES it along the table. Steps back, hands
raised.

                     COBB
          Did she tell you, or have you known
          all along?

                     SAITO
          That you're here to steal from me?
              (beat)
          Or that we're actually asleep?

Arthur gives Cobb an I-told-you-so look.

                    SAITO
          I want to know who your employer
          is.

Mal COCKS the gun at Arthur's temple.
                                                           9.

                    COBB
          No point threatening him in a
          dream.

                    MAL
          That depends on what you're
          threatening. Killing him would just
          wake him up... but pain? Pain is in
          the mind...

Mal LOWERS the gun and SHOOTS Arthur in the leg- Arthur
drops, SCREAMING- Mal looks at Cobb, cold.

                    MAL
          And, judging by the decor, we're in
          your mind, aren't we, Arthur?

Cobb watches Arthur's PAIN. Mal aims at Arthur's other leg...

Cobb SPRINGS for the table, SKIDDING along its polished
surface- he GRABS his gun- SHOOTS ARTHUR BETWEEN THE EYES-

Arthur DROPS- the room starts to SHUDDER in a MASSIVE
EARTHQUAKE- Cobb SPRINGS for the door- Arthur's eyes stare at
the ceiling, DEAD, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. FILTHY BATHROOM - DAY

Arthur's EYES OPEN as he WAKES IN THE ARMCHAIR- he GRABS at
the tubes at his wrist, YANKING them free-

                    NASH
          What're you doing?! It's too soon-

FLUID spurts from the tubes as Arthur STRUGGLES with the
SILVER CASE on the bathroom floor.

                    ARTHUR
          I know! We have to reconnect the
          loop before they wake up!

Arthur grabs the case and pushes through the door to the
bedroom- following the tubes to where they meet Saito's wrist-
SAITO LIES ON THE BED ASLEEP. Saito STIRS and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. JAPANESE CASTLE CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Cobb LURCHES towards the stairs, as all around him the
building BUCKS and HEAVES-
                                                           10.

INT. DINING ROOM, JAPANESE CASTLE - CONTINUOUS

Saito and the Guards PANIC. Mal walks calmly through the
destruction, picks up the envelope and turns to Saito.

                    MAL
          He was close. Very close.

EXT. GRAND STAIRCASE, JAPANESE CASTLE - CONTINUOUS

Cobb runs up the stairs, pulling out the SECOND ENVELOPE-

INT. DINING ROOM, JAPANESE CASTLE - CONTINUOUS

Saito RIPS open the envelope, pulls out sheets of paper. He
looks at Mal, PANICKED. He turns to the Guards-

                      SAITO
          Stop him!

Mal, confused, looks at the sheets of paper: THEY ARE BLANK.
Mal smiles, amused.

INT. GRAND STAIRCASE, JAPANESE CASTLE - CONTINUOUS

As Cobb runs up the stairs he reads the TYPEWRITTEN SHEETS
from his envelope, and we-

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. DILAPIDATED HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Arthur OPENS the silver case: a COMPLEX MECHANISM of TUBES,
SYRINGES, DOSAGE CONTROLLERS. Arthur's hands fly across the
machine's controls as he glances at Saito's STIRRING face-

                    ARTHUR
          I'm not going to make it! Wake
          Cobb!

INT. FILTHY BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Nash turns to Cobb. Raises his hand and SMACKS him across the
face, and we-

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. GRAND STAIRCASE, JAPANESE CASTLE - NIGHT

Cobb is SMASHED sideways off his feet...
                                                        11.

INT. DINING ROOM, JAPANESE CASTLE - NIGHT

The CEILING CRACKS above Saito- he looks up as a TON of STONE
floods down, CRUSHING HIM and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. DILAPIDATED HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Saito's eyes FLICKER OPEN. AWAKE.

INT. FILTHY BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Nash SMACKS Cobb again-

                    NASH
          He won't wake!

INT. DILAPIDATED HOTEL ROOM-CONTINUOUS

Arthur crouched by Saito, connects the second tube.

                      ARTHUR
          Dunk him!

A CLICK: Arthur looks up to find Saito with a gun to his head
and a finger to his lips, gesturing silence...

INT. FILTHY BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Nash puts his hand on Cobb's forehead and PUSHES HIM
BACKWARDS- as Cobb starts to FALL BACKWARDS in the chair we
are in SLOW MOTION, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. GRAND STAIRCASE, JAPANESE CASTLE - NIGHT

Cobb, full speed, picks himself up, scrambling to read the
last sheet of paper. He stares at it PUZZLED- bullets hit
around him as the Guards race up the stairs and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. FILTHY BATHROOM - DAY

Cobb in SLOW MOTION, hits the WATER- head THRASHING as he
goes under- and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. GRAND STAIRCASE, JAPANESE CASTLE - NIGHT

Cobb glances up from the paper as WATER EXPLODES IN THROUGH
ALL THE WINDOWS, FLOODING THE ENTIRE HALL-
                                                        12.

COBB IS SWAMPED BY WATER, SPUN IN ALL DIRECTIONS AT ONCE- HE
PULLS DEEPER OR FOR THE SURFACE, WE CAN'T TELL...

HE BREAKS THE SURFACE, GASPING FOR AIR IN THE BATHTUB IN THE-

INT. FILTHY BATHROOM - DAY

Cobb's AWAKE, GULPING AIR, getting his bearings.

Saito SMASHES into the room, KNOCKING Nash down- Cobb
LAUNCHES himself out of the tub, FLYING dripping wet across
the room to SLAM Saito against the door- the gun DROPS,
Cobb's fist CONNECTS with Saito's jaw and the struggle is
over.

INT. DILAPIDATED HOTEL ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Cobb, wet but composed, sits, turning Saito's gun in his
hand. Nash holds Saito's arms behind him. Outside, the sounds
of RIOTING grow louder.

                    COBB
          You came prepared.

                    SAITO
          I bring the gun because not even my
          head of security knows this
          apartment. How did you find it?

Arthur, at the window, looks out at the WORSENING VIOLENCE.

                    COBB
          Hard for a man in your position to
          keep a love nest totally secret...
          particularly when there's a married
          woman involved.

                    SAITO
          She would never...

                    COBB
          And yet, here we are.

Saito is silent.

                    COBB
          With a dilemma.

                    SAITO
          You got what you came for.

                     COBB
          Not quite. The key piece of
          information wasn't there, was it,
          Mr. Saito?
                                                         13.

Arthur looks over at Cobb, worried.

                    ARTHUR
          They're getting closer, Cobb.

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BULLET TRAIN COMPARTMENT - DAY

Todashi slips a pair of HEADPHONES over Nash's ears, then
pulls out an MP3 player and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. DILAPIDATED HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Saito's eyes are on the floor.

                    COBB
          You held something back because you
          knew what we were up to...

Cobb uses the barrel of the gun to raise Saito's chin.

                    COBB
          So why let us in at all?

Saito smiles, defiant. VIOLENT NOISES echo up the stairway...

                    SAITO
          An audition.

                    COBB
          Audition for what?

                    SAITO
          It doesn't matter. You failed.

                    COBB
          I extracted all the information you
          had in there.

                    SAITO
          But your deception was readily
          apparent.

And we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BULLET TRAIN COMPARTMENT - DAY

Todashi opens the SILVER BRIEFCASE, revealing the complex
mechanism of syringes and controllers- FOUR CONTROLLERS
DISPLAY COUNTDOWNS.
                                                        14.

Todashi waits for the first countdown to hit "30," then HITS
PLAY on the MP3 player- He watches Nash's sleeping face as he
RAISES the volume...

Through Nash's headphones: the opening bars of Edith Piaf's
"Non, je ne regrette rien," and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. DILAPIDATED HOTEL ROOM - DAY

In the distant background, strange MASSIVE low-end MUSICAL
start, sounding like DISTANT HORNS...

                    SAITO
          So leave me and go.

                    COBB
          You know the corporation who hired
          us won't accept failure. We won't
          last two days...

The DISTANT, SLOWED-DOWN MUSIC is becoming LOUDER, as are the
SHOUTS coming up the stairs. Arthur looks at his watch, its
SLOW SECOND TICKING MARKS TIME WITH THE MASSIVE MUSIC.

                    ARTHUR
          Come on, Cobb.

                    COBB
          So now I have to do this the old-
          fashioned way-

Cobb GRABS SAITO AND PUTS HIS HEAD TO THE FLOOR, gun pressed
into his cheek. Saito looks into Cobb's eyes- sees he will
pull the trigger. Saito BLINKS, looks away in shame-

When he NOTICES SOMETHING. And starts LAUGHING.

                    SAITO
          I've always hated this carpet.

Cobb's eyes flick to the carpet and back.

                    SAITO
          It's stained and frayed in such
          distinctive ways...

Cobb looks up at Nash, who shrugs, at a loss.

                    SAITO
          But very definitely made of wool.
          Right now I'm lying on polyester.
                                                           15.

Cobb glares at Nash, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BULLET TRAIN COMPARTMENT - DAY

Todashi watches the first of the countdowns hit ZERO- He
looks up at Arthur, STIRRING, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. DILAPIDATED HOTEL ROOM-DAY

Saito turns from the carpet to look up at Cobb.

                    SAITO
          Which means I'm not lying on my
          carpet, in my apartment...
              (smiles)
          You've lived up to your reputation,
          Mr. Cobb... I'm still dreaming.

Cobb looks over to Arthur, but ARTHUR HAS VANISHED, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BULLET TRAIN COMPARTMENT - DAY

Arthur's eyes flicker open, AWAKE. He RIPS at his tubes.

                    TODASHI
          How'd it go?

                      ARTHUR
          Not good.

Arthur checks the remaining three countdowns, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. DILAPIDATED HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Saito gets to his feet, looking admiringly at Cobb.

                     SAITO
          A dream within a dream-I'm
          impressed.

Cobb lowers the gun. Defeated. Glances at his watch. The
music REVERBERATES, the RIOTERS BANG ON THE DOOR, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:
                                                        16.

INT. BULLET TRAIN COMPARTMENT - DAY

Arthur retracts the tubes into the case as he watches the
next countdown hit ZERO, and we-

                                                   CUT TO:

INT. DILAPIDATED HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Another BANG on the door- Saito, confident now, approaches
Cobb. Nash is behind Saito.

                    SAITO
          But in my dream, we really ought to
          be playing by my rules...

                    NASH
          Ah, yes, but you see, Mr. Saito-

Saito turns to Nash-

                    COBB
          We're not in your dream-

Saito turns back to Cobb, BUT COBB HAS VANISHED-

                    NASH
          We're in mine.

Saito SPINS back to Nash- the DOOR SMASHES OFF ITS HINGES AS
RIOTERS POUR INTO THE ROOM, SWARMING OVER NASH... BUT NASH IS
GONE. The music DIES. Saito and the rioters stand there in
the SILENCE, the light DWINDLING... and we-

                                                   CUT TO:

INT. BULLET TRAIN COMPARTMENT - DAY

Nash' eyes open, AWAKE.

                       ARTHUR (O.S.)
          Asshole!

Nash BLINKS. Arthur is in his face, furious.

                    ARTHUR
          How could you get the carpet
          wrong?!

                    NASH
          It wasn't my fault!

                    ARTHUR
          You're the architect-
                                                        17.

                    NASH
          I didn't know he was going to rub
          his damn cheek on it!

Cobb pulls Arthur away from Nash.

                     COBB
          Lets go.

                    ARTHUR
          And you-what the hell was all that?

                    COBB
          I had it under control.

                    ARTHUR
          I'd hate to see out of control-

                    COBB
          There's no time for this-I'm
          getting off at Kyoto.

                    ARTHUR
          Why? He's not gonna search every
          compartment.

                    COBB
          I can't stand trains.

Arthur moves to the briefcase. Turns a dial.

                    ARTHUR
          I can keep him under for one minute-

Arthur hits a button- A PLUNGER DEPRESSES. Cobb RIPS the tape
off Saito's wrist, ROLLS up his tubes. Arthur SLAMS the
silver case shut. Todashi pulls open the door-

                    COBB
          Every man for himself.

Arthur and Nash EXIT, heading in different directions down
the corridor. Cobb hands Todashi a thick roll of CASH, looks
at Saito, who stirs. Cobb moves off.

EXT. JAPANESE COUNTRYSIDE - CONTINUOUS

The BULLET TRAIN speeds through the lush landscape.

INT. BULLET TRAIN COMPARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Saito WAKES GENTLY. Looks around the compartment, empty but
for Todashi, reading a comic. Saito looks down at his wrist.
Sees a small mark. Rubs it. SMILES.
                                                        18.

EXT. TOKYO - DUSK

Moving over the vast city towards a high rise. A HELICOPTER
thumps into frame, heading for a pad on the roof.

INT. APARTMENT, TOKYO - CONTINUOUS

Cobb sits, waiting. Checks his watch, restless. He pulls a
HANDGUN. Checks it is loaded. places it on the table in front
of him. Pulls out a PEWTER SPINNING TOP, SPINS it on the
table ... He INTENT STUDIES the top's spin... As he stares,
the sound of a FREIGHT TRAIN builds and builds- the top
WOBBLES, TIPS onto its side- the sound of the train STOPS.
the PHONE RINGS- Cobb GRABS it-

                    CHILDREN'S VOICES (over phone)
          Hi, Daddy! Hi, Dad.

                    COBB
          Hey, guys. How are you?

                    CHILDREN'S VOICES (over phone)
          Good. Okay, I guess.

Cobb closes his eyes, trying to picture his children: INSERT
CUT: COBB's MEMORY- a LITTLE BLONDE BOY (3), back towards us,
crouches IN A GARDEN, looks at something in the grass...

                    COBB
          Who's just okay? Was that James?

                    JAMES (over phone)
          Yeah. When are you coming home?

                    COBB
          I can't. Not for a while.

INSERT CUT: A LITTLE BLONDE GIRL (5), also FACE UNSEEN, joins
JAMES, CROUCHING BESIDE HIM...

                    JAMES (over phone)
          Why?

                    COBB
          Well, James, like I've told you-I'm
          away because I'm working...

                    LITTLE GIRL (over phone)
          Grandma says you're never coming
          back.
Cobb pauses. Takes a breath. INSERT CUT: James and Philippa,
FACES UNSEEN, lift their heads from the grass, responding to
someone's call- they RUN AWAY FROM US ACROSS THE GARDEN...
                                                          19.

                    COBB
          Philippa, can you ask Grandma to
          pick up the phone-

                    PHILIPPA (over phone)
          She's shaking her head.

Cobb TENSES, as if about to SMASH the phone.

                    COBB
          Well, we'll just have to hope
          Grandma's wrong about that won't
          we?

                    JAMES
              (over phone)
          Daddy?

                    COBB
          Yes?

                    JAMES (over phone)
          Is Mommy with you?

Cobb looks like he just got punched- INSERT CUT: COBB'S
MEMORY- MAL, WIND BLOWING HER HAIR, SMILES CALMLY...

                    COBB
          No. No, we talked about this,
          James. Mommy's gone.

                    JAMES (over phone)
          Where?

                    GRANDMA'S VOICE (over phone)
          Time to go, kids. Say bye-bye-
                    COBB
          I'll give some presents to Grandpa,
          okay? Just be good for-

Cobb STARES at the dead phone. Then DOWNS his drink- A KNOCK
at the door. Cobb GRABS the top, the gun- MOVES to the door-
cracks it: Arthur.

                    ARTHUR
          Our ride's on the roof.

Cobb nods. Moves to pick up his bag. Arthur watches.

                    ARTHUR
          Cobb... are you okay?

Cobb looks up.
                                                           20.

                       COBB
          Yeah, why?

                    ARTHUR
          Down in the dream... Mal showing up
          like that ...

                    COBB
          Yeah. I'm sorry about your leg.

                    ARTHUR
          It's getting worse, isn't it?

                    COBB
          One apology's all you're getting,
          Arthur. Now, where's Nash?

                    ARTHUR
          Hasn't shown. Wanna wait?

                    COBB
              (shakes head)
          We were supposed to deliver Saito's
          expansion plans to Cobol Engineering
          two hours ago. By now they know we
          failed. Time to disappear.

INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

Cobb and Arthur head towards the elevator.

                    ARTHUR
          Where will you go?

                    COBB
          Buenos Aires. I can lie low there.
          Maybe sniff out a job when things
          quiet down. You?

                       ARTHUR
          Stateside.

                    COBB
              (wistful) )
          'Course. Send my regards.

Arthur looks at Cobb. Nods. Sympathetic.

EXT. ROOFTOP HELIPAD - NIGHT

The HELICOPTER sits, ROTORS SPINNING. As Cobb and Arthur
reach the door, it SLIDES OPEN. Cobb steps up into the
leather-padded interior. He freezes.
                                                        21.

INT. HELICOPTER ON PAD - CONTINUOUS

Nash, BEATEN BLOODY, sits on the far side, slumped against
the wine. Beside him: SAITO. He nods politely at Cobb.

                    SAITO
          He sold you out. Thought to come to
          me and bargain for his life...

Saito's BODYGUARD offers Cobb a GUN.

                    SAITO
          So I offer you the satisfaction.

                    COBB
          That's not how I deal with things.

                    SAITO
          Would you work with him again?

Cobb shakes his head. Saito's BODYGUARDS PULL Nash from the
chopper. Saito motions Cobb and Arthur to sit. The chopper
RISES. Cobb watches Nash DRAGGED across the pad.

                    COBB
          What will you do to him?

                    SAITO
          Nothing. But I can't speak for your
          friends from Cobol Engineering.

Saito looks out at the city slipping by.

                    COBB
          What do you want from us?

                       SAITO
          Inception.

Arthur raises his eyebrows. Cobb is poker-faced.

                    SAITO
          Is it possible?

                    ARTHUR
          Of course not.

                    SAITO
          If you can steal an idea from
          someone's mind, why can't you plant
          one there instead?

                    ARTHUR
          Okay, here's planting an idea: I
          say to you, "Don't think about
          elephants."
                    (MORE)
                                                        22.
                    ARTHUR (CONT'D)
              (Saito nods)
          What are you thinking about?

                       SAITO
          Elephants.

                    ARTHUR
          Right. But it's not your idea
          because you know I gave it to you.

                    SAITO
          You could plant it subconsciously-

                    ARTHUR
          The subject's mind can always trace
          the genesis of the idea. True
          inspiration is impossible to fake.

                    COBB
          No, it isn't.

                    SAITO
          Can you do it?

                    COBB
          I won't do it.

                    SAITO
          In exchange, I'll give you the
          information you were paid to steal.

                    COBB
          Are you giving me a choice? Because
          I can find my own way to square
          things with Cobol.

                    SAITO
          Then you do have a choice.

                    COBB
          And I choose to leave.

EXT. AIRFIELD - MOMENTS LATER

The helicopter sets down next to a PRIVATE JET.

INT. HELICOPTER - CONTINUOUS

Saito indicates the plane.

                    SAITO
          Tell the crew where you want to go,
          they'll file the plan en route.

Cobb and Arthur look at each other. Then move for the door.
                                                23.

                    SAITO
          Mr. Cobb...? There is one other
          thing I could offer you.
              (Cobb stops)
          How would you like to go home? To
          America. To your children.

Cobb turns back to Saito.

                    COBB
          You can't fix that. Nobody could.

                    SAITO
          Just like inception.

Cobb considers this. Arthur touches his arm.

                    ARTHUR
          Cobb, come on-

                    COBB
          How complex is the idea?

                    SAITO
          Simple enough.

                    COBB
          No idea's simple when you have to
          plant it in someone else's mind.

                    SAITO
          My main competitor is an old man in
          poor health. His son will soon
          inherit control of the corporation.
          I need him to decide to break up
          his father's empire. Against his
          own self-interest.

                    ARTHUR
          Cobb, we should walk away from
          this.

                    COBB
          If I were to do it. If I could do
          it... how do I know you can
          deliver?

                    SAITO
          You don't. But I can. So do you
          want to take a leap of faith, or
          become an old man, filled with
          regret, waiting to die alone?

Cobb looks at Saito. Barely nods.
                                                          24.

                    SAITO
          Assemble your team, Mr. Cobb. And
          choose your people more wisely.

INT. PRIVATE JET - LATER

Cobb reclines his seat. Arthur picks at a salad, angry.

                    ARTHUR
          I know how much you want to go home-

                    COBB
              (sharp)
          No, you don't.

                    ARTHUR
          But this can't be done.

                    COBB
          It can. You just have to go deep
          enough.

                    ARTHUR
          You don't know that!-

                    COBB
          I've done it before.

Arthur is taken aback. Cobb turns to the window.

                    ARTHUR
          Did it work?

                       COBB
                 (quiet)
          Yes.

                    ARTHUR
          Who did you do it to?

Cobb looks at Arthur. Closed. Arthur shrugs.

                    ARTHUR
          So why are we headed to Paris?

                     COBB
          We're going to need a new
          architect.

INT. GREAT HALL, ÉCOLE D'ARCHITECTURE - MORNING

Cobb, carrying a shopping bag, looks into a lecture hall: no
students, just a RUMPLED PROFESSOR hunched over paperwork.
                                                        25.

INT. LECTURE HALL - CONTINUOUS

                    COBB (O.S.)
          You never did like your office.

PROFESSOR MILES looks up, squinting. Recognizes Cobb.

                    MILES
          No space to think in that broom
          cupboard.

Cobb steps down past the empty wooden rows.

                    MILES
          Is it safe for you to be here?

                    COBB
          Extradition between France and the
          U.S. is a bureaucratic nightmare.

                    MILES
          I think they'd find a way to make
          it work in your case.

Cobb hand Miles the shopping bag.

                    COBB
          Can you take these back for the
          kids?

                    MILES
          It'll take more than the occasional
          stuffed animal to convince those
          children they still have a father.

                    COBB
          I know. I thought you could talk to
          Marie about bringing them on
          vacation. Somewhere I could meet-

                    MILES
          Why would she listen to me?

                    COBB
          You were married for twenty years.

                    MILES
          She blames me as much as you.

                    COBB
          Doesn't she understand that my kids
          need me?
                                                26.

                    MILES
          Yes, she does. We all do. Go back
          and face the music, Dom. Explain
          what Mal did.

                    COBB
          Be realistic, Stephen. They'd never
          understand- they'd lock me up and
          throwaway the key. Or worse.

                    MILES
          You think what you're doing now is
          helping your case?

                    COBB
          Lawyers don't pay for themselves.
          This is what I have. This is what
          you taught me.

                    MILES
          I never taught you to be a thief.

                    COBB
          No, you taught me to navigate other
          people's minds. But after what
          happened with Mal there weren't a
          whole lot of legitimate ways for me
          to use that skill.

Miles looks at Cobb.

                    MILES
          Why did you come here, Dom?

Cobb shifts slightly.

                     COBB
          I found a way home. A job. For
          powerful people. If I pull it off,
          I can get back to my family. But I
          need help.

Miles realizes something.

                    MILES
          My God. You're here to corrupt one
          of my brightest and best.

                    COBB
          If you have someone good enough,
          you have to let them decide for
          themselves. You know what I'm
          offering-

                       MILES
          Money?
                                                27.

                    COBB
          No, not just money: the chance to
          build cathedrals, entire cities-
          things that have never existed,
          things that couldn't exist in the
          real world...

                    MILES
          Everybody dreams, Cobb. Architects
          are supposed to make those dreams
          real.

                    COBB
          That's not what you used to say.
          You told me that in the real world
          I'd be building attic conversions
          and gas stations. You said that if
          I mastered the dream-share I'd have
          a whole new way of creating and
          showing people my creations. You
          told me it would free me.

Miles looks at Cobb, sad.

                    MILES
          And I'm sorry. I was wrong.

                    COBB
          No, you weren't. Your vision was a
          vision of pure creativity. It's
          where we took it that was wrong.

                    MILES
          And now you want me to let someone
          else follow you into fantasy.

                    COBB
          They won't actually come on the
          job, they'll just design the levels
          and teach them to the dreamers.

                    MILES
          Design them yourself.

                    COBB
          Mal won't let me.

Miles looks at Cobb. Appalled.

                    MILES
          Come back to reality, Dom. Please.

                    COBB
          You want to know what's real,
          Stephen? Your grandchildren waiting
          for their dad to come back.
                    (MORE)
                                                        28.
                    COBB (CONT'D)
          This job-this last job-is how I get
          there.

Miles looks down, fiddles with his papers.

                    COBB
          I wouldn't be standing here if
          there were any other way. I can get
          home. But I need an architect who's
          as good as I was.

Miles looks Cobb in the eye. Decides.

                    MILES
          I've got someone better.

INT. CORRIDOR - LATER

Miles and Cobb stand by as STUDENTS file out of a lecture.

                       MILES
          Ariadne...

A young woman carrying books turns. This is ARIADNE.

                    MILES
          I'd like you to meet Mr. Cobb.

She sizes him up with quick eyes. Offers her hand.

                    ARIADNE
          Pleased to meet you.

                    MILES
          If you have a few moments, Mr. Cobb
          has a job offer to discuss with
          you.

                    ARIADNE
          A work placement?

                    COBB
              (smiles
          Not exactly.

EXT. ROOFTOP, ÉCOLE D'ARCHITECTURE - MOMENTS LATER

Ariadne leans against the parapet, overlooking Paris. She
unwraps a sandwich, watching Cobb pull out a pad of GRAPH
PAPER and a PEN. He offers them. She bites her sandwich.

                       COBB
          A test.
                                                           29.

                    ARIADNE
              (mouth full)
          Aren't you going to tell me
          anything?

                    COBB
          Before I describe the job, I have
          to know you could do it.

                    ARIADNE
          Why?

                    COBB
          It's not, strictly speaking, legal.

Ariadne raises her eyebrows.

                    COBB
          You have two minutes to draw a maze
          that takes me one minute to solve.

Ariadne takes the pad and pen. Cobb looks at his watch.

                    COBB
          Go.

She starts DRAWING LINES on the grid, constructing a maze.

                    COBB
          Stop.

Ariadne hands the pad and pen to Cobb. He glances at the pad,
then, looking her in the eye, TRACES the solution. She is
taken aback. Cobb RIPS off the sheet, hands the pad back.

                    COBB
          Again.

She traces straight lines, CONCENTRATING...

                    COBB
          Stop.

She hands Cobb the pad, a touch pleased. Cobb solves the
puzzle instantly, as before. Her smile falls.

                    COBB
          You'll have to-

She GRABS the pad, frustrated... but this time she FLIPS it
over and starts drawing on the BLANK CARDBOARD of the back.
Cobb watches, surprised. He smiles as he sees that she's
drawing CIRCLES, creating a maze based on concentric rings.

Ariadne hands back the pad, defiant. Cobb takes the pen,
starts the maze. This time he gets stuck. Nods.
                                                           30.

                    COBB
              (working the maze)
          More like it.

EXT. NARROW STREET, PARIS - DAY

Arthur stops at a warehouse door. Consults a piece of paper.

INT. WORKSHOP - CONTINUOUS

A large, dusty warehouse. The SLIDING DOOR cracks open.
Arthur enters. Looks around, approvingly.

INT. SAME - LATER

Arthur DRAGS LAWN CHAIRS into the middle of the room. He
erects a table. Lays out several SILVER CASES, unpacking
them, laying out lines of tubing, MECHANISMS...

EXT. PARISIAN CAFE - DAY

Cobb and Ariadne sit at an outdoor table.

                    COBB
          They say we only use a fraction of
          the true potential of our brains...
          but they're talking about when
          we're awake. While we dream, the
          mind performs wonders.

                     ARIADNE
          Such as?

                    COBB
          How do you imagine a building? You
          consciously create each aspect,
          puzzling over it in stages... But
          sometimes, when your imagination
          flies-

                    ARIADNE
          I'm discovering it.

                    COBB
          Exactly. Genuine inspiration.

Cobb leans forwards and draws on the paper table cloth.

                    COBB
          In a dream your mind continuously
          does that...

Cobb has drawn a circle made of two arrows.
                                                     31.

                    COBB
          It creates and perceives a world
          simultaneously. So well that you
          don't feel your brain doing the
          creating. That's why we can short-
          circuit the process...

                    ARIADNE
          How?

                    COBB
          By taking over the creating part.

Cobb draws a straight line between the two arrows.

                    COBB
          This is where you come in. You
          build the world of the dream. We
          take the subject into that dream,
          and let him £111 it with his
          subconscious

                    ARIADNE
          But are you trying to fool him that
          the dream is actually real life?

                     COBB
              (nods)
          While we're in there, We don't want
          him to realize he's dreaming.

                    ARIADNE
          How could I ever get enough detail
          to Convince him that it's real?

                    COBB
          Our dreams reel real while we're in
          them. It's only when we wake up we
          realize things were strange,

Ariadne gestures around them-

                    ARIADNE
          But all the textures of real life-
          the stone, the fabric. cars...
          people... your mind can't create
          all this.

                    COBB
          It does. Every time you dream. Let
          me ask you a question: You never
          remember the beginning of your
          dreams, do you? You just turn up in
          the middle of what's going on.
                                                        32.

                       ARIADNE
          I guess.

                    COBB
          So... how did we end up at this
          restaurant?

                    ARIADNE
          We came here from...

Ariadne trails off, confused.

                    COBB
          How did we get here? Where are we?

Ariadne THINKS, unable to remember. A FAINT RUMBLE begins.

                    ARIADNE
          Oh my God. We're dreaming.

Cobb nods. The RUMBLE is BUILDING.

                    COBB
          Stay calm. We're actually asleep in
          the workshop. This is your first
          lesson in shared dreaming,
          remember?

Ariadne looks around, mind REELING. Cobb BRACES-

The restaurant VIOLENTLY FRAGMENTS, EXPLODING AND IMPLODING
PARTICLES OF FURNITURE, WALLS, PEOPLE FLYING AROUND- Ariadne
WONDERS at the MAYHEM WHIRLING around them- Cobb SHIELDS his
head against the debris. She sees him-

                    ARIADNE
              (shouting over noise)
          If it's just a dream, why are you
          covering your-

Ariadne is WIPED FROM HER SEAT BY A MASSIVE BLAST and we-

                                                   CUT TO:

INT. WORKSHOP - DAY

Ariadne JOLTS awake.

                    COBB (O.S.)
          Because it's never just a dream.

Ariadne turns to Cobb's voice. They are both sitting in the
lawn chairs. Arthur watches over them.
                                                        33.

                    COBB
          And a face full of glass hurts like
          hell, doesn't it? While we're in
          it, it's real.

                    ARTHUR
          That's why the military developed
          dream sharing-a training program
          where soldiers could strangle, stab
          and shoot each other, then wake up.

                    ARIADNE
          How did architects get involved?

                    COBB
          Someone had to design the dreams.
              (to Arthur)
          Let's go another five minutes-

                    ARIADNE
          We were only asleep for five
          minutes? We talked for an hour at
          least...

                    COBB
          When you dream, your mind functions
          more quickly, so time seems to pass
          more slowly.

                    ARTHUR
          Five minutes in the real world
          gives you an hour in the dream.

                    COBB
          Let's see how much trouble you can
          cause in five minutes.

And we-

                                                  CUT TO:

EXT. SAME PARISIAN STREET - DAY

Ariadne walks down the crowded street with Cobb. Cobb looks
around at the street, the cafe, approving.

                    COBB
          It's good. You've got the cafe, the
          layout... you forgot the book shop
          but pretty much everything else is
          here.

Ariadne looks at the passers-by.

                    ARIADNE
          Who are the people?
                                                        34.

                    COBB
          They're projections of my
          subconscious.

                     ARIADNE
          Yours?

                    COBB
          Sure-you are the dreamer, I am the
          subject. My subconscious populates
          your world. That's one way we get
          at a subject's thoughts-his mind
          creates the people, so we can
          literally talk to his subconscious.

                    ARIADNE
          How else do you do it?

                    COBB
          Architecture. Build a bank vault or
          a jail, something secure, and the
          subject's mind will fill it with
          information he's trying to protect.

                    ARIADNE
          Then you break in and steal it.

                     COBB
          Exactly.

Ariadne wonders at the detail of the street.

                     ARIADNE
          I love the concrete sense of things-
              (stamps foot)
          Real weight, you know? I thought a
          dream space would be all about the
          visual, but it's the feel of
          things. Question is, what happens
          as you start to mess with
          physics...

She CONCENTRATES on the street. The street starts to BEND IN
HALF- the buildings on either side FOLDING IN until they form
the INSIDE OF A CUBE OF CITY, GRAVITY FUNCTIONING
INDEPENDENTLY ON EACH PLANE. Ariadne looks up (or down) at
the people on the opposite city surface. Cobb watches her
excitement.

                    ARIADNE
          It's something, isn't it?

                    COBB
              (quiet)
          Yes. It is.
                                                        35.

As they walk, Ariadne notices more and more of the
projections STARING at her.

                    ARIADNE
          Why are they looking at me?

                    COBB
          Because you're changing things. My
          subconscious feels that someone
          else is creating the world. The
          more you change things, the quicker
          the projections converge on you.

                      ARIADNE
          Converge?

                    COBB
          They feel the foreign nature of the
          dreamer, and attack-like white
          blood cells fighting an infection.

                    ARIADNE
          They're going to attack us?

                    COBB
          Just you, actually.

They walk along the street to where it joins the next
gravitational plane. They step up onto the different plane
and walk down the street towards a river. As Ariadne
approaches, steps emerge from the flagstone, and she leads
Cobb up onto a small jetty. As she concentrates, pillars
emerge and a BRIDGE starts to telescope out from the jetty.
They step onto it as it grows. Cobb is impressed.

                    COBB
          It's beautiful... but if you keep
          on changing things...

People crossing the bridge STARE at Ariadne. Several of them
BUMP her shoulder as they pass.

                    ARIADNE
          Mind telling your subconscious to
          take it easy?

                    COBB
          That's why it's called subconscious.
          I don't control it.

The bridge now spans the Seine. Cobb marvels at it.

                    COBB
          Arched stone, iron pillars...
          it's...
                                                          36.

Cobb pauses, thinking. Remembering.

INSERT CUT: Mal, hair blowing, turns to Cobb, smiling,
laughing. He smiles back. They are on the same bridge.

                    COBB
          I know this bridge. This place is
          real-
              (serious)
          You didn't imagine it, you
          remembered it...

                     ARIADNE
              (nods)
          I cross it every day on my way to
          the college.

                    COBB
          Never recreate places from your
          memory. Always imagine new places.

                    ARIADNE
          You have to draw from what you know-

                    COBB
              (tense)
          Use pieces-a streetlamp,
          phonebooths, a type of brick-not
          whole areas.

Several people around them ECHO Cobb's attitude...

                     ARIADNE
          Why not?

                    COBB
          Because building dreams out of your
          own memories is the surest way to
          lose your grip on what's real and
          what's a dream.

                    ARIADNE
          Did that happen to you?

Cobb says nothing. He stands there, starinq at Ariadne.
PEOPLE around her stop and look at her, hostile.

                    COBB
          Look, this isn't about me-

Cobb reaches for Ariadne's arm, turns her to him-

                    ARIADNE
          Is that why you need me to build
          your dreams?
                                                         37.

A passerby GRABS Ariadne's shoulder-

                    COBB
          Leave her alone-

More of the crowd join in, PULLING at Ariadne, holding her
arms open- Cobb PULLS people off- the crowd PUSHES him away-
Cobb sees someone WALKING PURPOSEFULLY through the crowd
towards the helpless, Ariadne- it is Mal. She approaches with
even strides- Ariadne stares at her, uneasy.

                    ARIADNE
          Wake me up, Cobb.

As Mal walks, she pulls out a LARGE KNIFE-

                       COBB
          Mal, no!

                    ARIADNE
          Wake me up!

Ariadne SCREAMS as Mal LUNGES at her with the knife and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. WORKSHOP-DAY

Ariadne WAKES, BREATHING HARD. Arthur moves to her-

                       ARTHUR
          It's okay.

                    ARIADNE
          Why couldn't I wake?

                    ARTHUR
          The only way to wake from inside
          the dream is to die.

Cobb, in the lawn chair opposite, PULLS his tubes out.

                    COBB
          She'll need a totem.

                       ARIADNE
          What?

                    ARTHUR
          Some kind of personal icon. A small
          object that you can always have
          with you, and that no one else
          knows,

Cobb gets to his feet, Ariadne stares at him, furious. He
heads to the bathroom.
                                                          38.

                     ARIADNE
          That's some subconscious you've
          got, Cobb.
              (calls after him)
          She's a real charmer!

                    ARTHUR
          Sounds like you've met Mrs. Cobb.

                    ARIADNE
              (surprised)
          She's his wife?

Arthur nods, pulling off Ariadne's tubes.

                    ARTHUR
          So. A totem. You need something
          small, potentially heavy...

INT. BATHROOM, WORKSHOP - CONTINUOUS

Cobb takes out his PEWTER SPINNING TOP, SPINS it on the
marble counter...

INT. WORKSHOP - CONTINUOUS

Ariadne looks at Arthur, puzzled.

                    ARIADNE
          Like a coin?

                    ARTHUR
          Too common. You need something that
          has a weight or movement that only
          you know.

INT. BATHROOM, WORKSHOP - CONTINUOUS

Cobb STUDIES the spin of the top as it decays, becoming more
and more ECCENTRIC...

INT. WORKSHOP - CONTINUOUS

                    ARIADNE
          What's yours?

Arthur holds out a DIE.

                    ARTHUR
          A loaded die.

Ariadne reaches for it- Arthur snatches sit away-
                                                          39.

                    ARTHUR
          I can't let you handle it. That's
          the point. No one else can know the
          weight or balance of it.

                     ARIADNE
          Why?

                    ARTHUR
          So when you examine your totem...

INT. BATHROOM, WORKSHOP - CONTINUOUS

Cobb's spinning top WOBBLES OVER.

                    ARTHUR (O.S.)
          You know, beyond a doubt, that
          you're not in someone else's dream.

Cobb GRABS it like a drowning man reaching for a lifeline.

INT. WORKSHOP - CONTINUOUS

Ariadne thinks this over.

                    ARIADNE
          That's not an issue for me.

                     ARTHUR
          Why not?

                    ARIADNE
          Arthur, maybe you can't see what's
          going on, maybe you don't want to.
          But Cobb's got problems he's tried
          to bury down there. I'm not going
          to open my mind to someone like
          that.

Ariadne gets to her feet. Walks away.

                    COBB (O.S.)
          She'll be back.

Arthur turns. Cobb is standing in the bathroom doorway.

                    COBB
          I've never seen anyone pick it up
          so fast. And one reality won't be
          enough for her now. When she comes
          back, get her building mazes.

                    ARTHUR
          Where will you be?
                                                           40.

                    COBB
          I've got to talk to Eames.

                    ARTHUR
          Eames? But he's in Mombasa. Cobol's
          backyard.

                    COBB
          Necessary risk.

                    ARTHUR
          There are plenty of other thieves.

                    COBB
          We don't just need a thief. We need
          a forger.

INT. GAMBLING DEN, MOMBASA - DAY

Crowded, bustling, smoke-filled. a westerner (40's), shabby
suit, is squeezed in at a dice game. This is EAMES. He
FIDDLES with his last two chips.

                    COBB (O.S.)
          Rub them against each other all you
          like, they're not going to breed.

Eames looks up to see Cobb.

                    EAMES
          You never know.

Eames tosses down his last chips. The dice are rolled...

                      COBB
          Drink?

Eames loses.

                    EAMES
          You're buying.

Cobb follows Eames. Eames mysteriously produces two stacks of
chips and puts them down in front of the cashier. Cobb pulls
one off the top, squints at the embossed name.

                    COBB
          You're spelling hasn't improved.

Eames GRABS the chip. Hands it to the cashier.

                      EAMES
          Piss off.

                    COBB
          How's your handwriting?
                                                        41.

Eames takes his money. Smiles at Cobb.

                       EAMES
          Versatile.

INT. STREET, MOMBASA - CONTINUOUS

Eames leads Cobb down the quiet street.

                    EAMES
          Word is, you're not welcome in
          these parts.

                       COBB
          Yeah?

                    EAMES
          There's a price on your head from
          Cobol Engineering. Pretty big one,
          actually.

                    COBB
          You wouldn't sell me out.

Eames looks at Cobb, offended.

                    EAMES
          `Course I would.

                    COBB
              (smiles)
          Not when you hear what I'm selling.

EXT. BALCONY OF A COFFEE HOUSE - LATER

A ramshackle balcony overlooking a bust street. Eames pours.

                       COBB
          Inception.

Eames's glass stops halfway to his mouth.

                    COBB
          Don't bother telling me it's
          impossible.

                    EAMES
          It's perfectly possible. Just
          bloody difficult.

                    COBB
          That's what I keep saying to
          Arthur.
                                      42.

          EAMES
Arthur? You're still working with
that stick-in-the-mud?

          COBB
He's a good point man.

          EAMES
The best. But he has no
imagination. If you're going to
perform inception, you need
imagination.

          COBB
You've done it before?

          EAMES
Yeas and no. We tried it. Got the
idea in place, but it didn't take.

          COBB
You didn't plant it deep enough?

          EAMES
It's not just about depth. You need
the simplest version of the idea-
the one that will grow naturally in
the subject's mind. Subtle art.

          COBB
That's why I'm here.

          EAMES
What's the idea you need to plant?

          COBB
We want the heir to a major
corporation to break up his
father's empire.

          EAMES
See, right there you've got various
political motivations, anti-
monopolistic sentiment and so
forth. But all that stuff's at the
mercy of the subject's prejudice-
you have to go to the basic.

            COBB
Which is?

          EAMES
The relationship with the father.
    (downs drink)
Do you have a chemist?
                                                        43.

Cobb shakes his head.

                     EAMES
          There's a man here. Yusuf. He
          formulates his own versions of the
          compounds.

                    COBB
          Let's go see him.

                    EAMES
          Once you've lost your tail.
              (Cobb reacts)
          Back by the bar, blue tie. Came in
          about two minutes after we did.

                    COBB
          Cobol Engineering?

                    EAMES
          They pretty much own Mombasa.

Cobb glances over the balcony.

                    COBB
          Run interference. We'll meet
          downstairs in half an hour.

                       EAMES
          Back here?

                    COBB
          Last place they'd expect.

Eames downs his drink. Rises. Walks over to the Businessman.

                       EAMES
          Freddy!

The Businessman looks up, awkward.

                    EAMES
          Freddy Simmonds, it is you!

Cobb nonchalantly SLIPS over the balcony DROPPING HARD into
the midst of the crowd on the street below.

                    EAMES
              (looks harder)
          Oh. No, it isn't.

EXT. STREET, MOMBASA - CONTINUOUS

Cobb stands up, PUSHES into the crowd- faces PEER at him- he
moves, trying to blend- TURNS- a SECOND BUSINESS MAN is
there.
                                                           44.

                       COBB
                 (disarming smile)
          Yes?

                    SECOND BUSINESSMAN
          We need to-

Cobb HEAD BUTTS the Second Businessman, PUSHES past him-

The First Businessman races out of the bar, sees Cobb's wake,
DIVES after him- Cobb RACES headlong through tight
passageways, WEAVING through or KNOCKING into the locals...

He steps into a dark, crowded cafe, scanning the tables...
the First Businessman enters, spots him. An AFRICAN MAN gets
in Cobb's face, jabbering at him in Swahili- Cobb considers
his options... the First Businessman DRAWS A GUN- Cobb bolts,
steps up on a table and out an open window, SCRAMBLING into
the alley outside...

Cobb LOOKS left, right... CUTS LEFT into a narrow, CROWDED
alley- the alley NARROWS TO A DEAD END. Faces in the CROWD
start to watch Cobb- PEOPLE start to SURROUND him- Cobb looks
back the way he came- the two Businessmen are there, GUNS
DRAWN-

Cobb sees a SMALL GAP between the buildings at the narrow end-
he THROWS himself into it- gets STUCK HALFWAY...

The crowd bears down, GRABBING for him as Cobb struggles to
SQUEEZE HIMSELF through the gap... Cobb's moving INCHES as
his pursuers gain YARDS... the Crowd is upon him... he BURSTS
FREE. TUMBLING onto the next street, ROLLING out of sight.

Cobb Jumps to his feet- in a market square. TWO MORE
BUSINESSMEN move towards him. Cobb BOLTS but a CAR SKIDS UP,
BLOCKS HIS PATH- the door opens- SAITO IS IN THE BACK.

                    SAITO
          Care for a lift, Mr. Cobb?

                    COBB
              (jumping in)
          What brings you to Mombasa, Mr.
          Saito?

                    SAITO
          I have to protect my investment.

EXT. COFFEE HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Eames stands on the pavement. The car pulls up. Cobb beckons
from the rear window. Eames looks at Saito. Back to Cobb.

                    EAMES
          This is your idea of losing a tail?
                                                        45.

                    COBB
              (shrugs)
          Different tail.

INT. WORKSHOP - DAY

Arthur sits at the table, working on a mechanism. A small
COUGH prompts him to look up: Ariadne is there.

                    ARTHUR
          He said you'd be back.

                    ARIADNE
          I tried not to come.

                    ARTHUR
          But there's nothing else quite like
          it.

                    ARIADNE
          No paper, no pens... nothing
          between you and raw, direct
          creation.

Arthur picks up his mechanism.

                    ARTHUR
          Shall we take a look at paradoxical
          architecture?

Ariadne nods, takes off her coat and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. PENROSE STEPS - LATER

Arthur leads Ariadne down some busy steps in a large glass
and steel ATRIUM in an office complex.

                    ARTHUR
          You're going to have to master a
          few tricks if you're going to build
          three complete dream levels.

A SECRETARY DROPS some papers as they pass...

                    ARIADNE
          What sort of tricks?

They take a tight turn and continue down the next flight.

                    ARTHUR
          In a dream, you can cheat
          architecture into impossible
          shapes.
                    (MORE)
                                                        46.
                    ARTHUR (CONT'D)
          That lets you create closed loops,
          like the Penrose Steps. The
          infinite staircase.

Ariadne FREEZES- THEY ARE IN THE EXACT SPOT THEY STARTED
DESCENDING FROM, next to the Secretary gathering her papers.

Ariadne puzzles at the impossible construction of the stairs.

                    ARTHUR
          See...

Arthur stops her gently- they are on the highest step, with a
LARGE DROP to the next step. Arthur gestures at the drop.

                    ARTHUR
          Paradox. A closed loop like this
          helps you disguise the boundaries
          of the dream you've created.

                    ARIADNE
          How big do the levels have to be?

                    ARTHUR
          Anything from the floor of a
          building, to an entire city. But it
          has to be complicated enough for us
          to hide from the projections.

                    ARIADNE
          A maze.

                    ARTHUR
          And the better the maze-

                    ARIADNE
          The longer we have before the
          projections catch us.

Ariadne looks around. Sees people LOOKING at Arthur.

                    ARIADNE
          My subconscious seems polite
          enough.

                    ARTHUR
          You wait, they'll turn ugly. No one
          likes to see someone else messing
          around in their mind.

                    ARIADNE
          Cobb can't build anymore, can he?
                                                        47.

                    ARTHUR
          I don't know if he can't, but he
          won't. He thinks it's safer if he
          doesn't know the layouts.

                    ARIADNE
          Why?

                    ARTHUR
          He won't tell me. I think it's Mal.
          I think she's getting stronger.

                    ARIADNE
          His ex-wife?

                    ARTHUR
          She's not his ex.

                    ARIADNE
          They're still together?

Arthur turns to Ariadne. Gentle.

                    ARTHUR
          No. No, she's dead, Ariadne. What
          you see in there is just his
          projection of her.

                    ARIADNE
          What was she like in real life?

                    ARTHUR
              (quiet)
          She was lovely.

                                                  CUT TO:

EXT. ROOFTOP, OLD TOWN, MOMBASA - DAY

Saito deposits a FILE in front of Cobb: PHOTOS, DOCUMENTS. As
Cobb runs through them, he passes them to Eames.

                    SAITO
          Robert Fischer, 32. Heir to the
          Fischer Morrow energy conglomerate.
          He's spent his whole life being
          groomed as successor-breaking up
          his father's empire will take a
          radical shift in his thinking.

                    COBB
          What's your problem with Fischer?

                    SAITO
          That's not your concern.
                                                          48.

                    COBB
          This isn't the usual corporate
          espionage, Mr. Saito. This is
          inception. The seed of the idea we
          plant will grow in this man's mind.
          It'll change him. It might even
          come to define him.

Saito looks at Cobb.

                    SAITO
          My sources suggest you might not
          have always been so cautious.

                    COBB
          Then you need new sources, Mr.
          Saito.

Saito considers Cobb. Shrugs.

                    SAITO
          Fischer Morrow has the regulators
          in their pockets. We're the last
          company standing between them and
          total energy dominance and we can
          no longer compete. Soon they'll
          control the energy supply of half
          the world. They'll be able to
          blackmail governments, dictate
          policy. In effect, they become a
          new superpower. The world needs
          Robert Fischer to change his mind.

                    EAMES
          That's where we come in. How's
          Robert Fischer's relationship to
          his father?

                    SAITO
          Rumor is the relationship is
          complicated.

                    COBB
          We'll need more than rumor, Mr.
          Saito.

Eames picks up a photo: a distinguished executive (68).

                     EAMES
          Can you get me access to him?
          Browning. Fischer senior's right-
          hand man. Fischer junior's
          godfather.
                                                        49.

                    SAITO
          It should be possible. If you can
          get the right references.

                    EAMES
          References are something of a
          specialty for me, Mr. Saito.

EXT. DECREPIT BUILDING, MOMBASA - LATER

Eames leads Cobb and Saito down uneven steps to a doorway.

INT. STAIRWELL - CONTINUOUS

Peeling paint, buzzing flies. They ascend to a dusty,
wire-reinforced glass door which Eames pushes open-



INT. PHARMACY - CONTINUOUS

Row upon row of wooden shelves holding hundreds of dusty
glass bottles of all shapes and colors. At the far end, a
portly 40-year-old man rises from behind his desk, beckoning.
This is YUSUF.

                    YUSUF
          Come, come.

Eames shakes Yusuf's hand. Yusuf stops at Cobb.

                    YUSUF
          Ah, yes. Mr. Cobb. I've heard so
          very much about you.
              (indicates chairs)
          please.

Yusuf chases a CAT off Saito's chair.

                    YUSUF
          Bloody cats.

Yusuf moves to a shelf and runs his fingers over the glass
bottles. None of them has a label.

                    YUSUF
          You work using Somnacin, I think,
          Mr. Cobb?

                    COBB
          You're well informed, Mr. Yusuf.

Yusuf places a bottle on the desk in front of Cobb.
                                                         50.

                    COBB
              (dubious)
          Somnacin?

                    YUSUF
              (proudly)
          Yusuf's Somnacin.

Yusuf pulls the stopper, holds it towards Cobb's nose.

                    COBB
          As good as the real thing?

Yusuf WHIPS the bottle away from Cobb, offended.

                       YUSUF
          Better.

Yusuf holds the bottle to the light, marveling.

                    YUSUF
          Binds the dreamers tight. Let's
          them dream as one. Makes it real.
          Of course, if you'd prefer, you
          could use Somnacin brand. If you
          could explain to the international
          control council what you wanted it
          for.

Yusuf puts the bottle back onto the shelf. Sits.

                    YUSUF
          You are seeking a chemist?
              (Cobb nods)
          To formulate compounds for a job?

                    COBB
          And to come into the held with us.

                    YUSUF
          I rarely go into the held, Mr.
          Cobb.

                    COBB
          We need you there to tailor
          compounds to our particular
          requirements.

                       YUSUF
          Which are?

                    COBB
          Great depth.

                    YUSUF
          A dream within a dream? Two levels?
                                                           51.

                      COBB
          Three.

                    YUSUF
          Not possible. That many dreams
          within dreams would be too
          unstable.

                    COBB
          I've done it before. You just have
          to add a sedative.

                    YUSUF
          A powerful sedative. How many team
          members?

                      COBB
          Five.

                      SAITO
          Six.
              (to Cobb)
          The only way to know you've done
          the job is if I go in with you.

                    COBB
          There's no room for tourists on
          these jobs, Mr. Saito.

                    SAITO
          This time, it would seem there is.

Cobb looks at him, uneasy. Yusuf pulls out another bottle.

                    YUSUF
          Of course. I use it every day.

Yusuf hands it to Cobb, who considers the white liquid
inside.

                      COBB
          For what?

Yusuf beckons them further into the pharmacy, to a METAL
DOOR. He STOPS- second thoughts.

                    YUSUF
          Perhaps... you will not want to
          see.

Cobb motions to continue. Yusuf pulls out a large key.
                                                        52.

INT. BACK ROOM, PHARMACY - CONTINUOUS

A dark room with ROWS of low COTS. Each with a sleeping
occupant. Tubes connect their wrists. An ELDERLY BALD MAN
watches over them.

                    EAMES
              (counting)
          Eighteen, twenty-all connected,
          bloody hell.

                    YUSUF
          They come every day. To share the
          dream.

Yusuf nods at the Elderly Bald Man, who moves to the nearest
bed. Reaches out to the OCCUPANT. Gives his face a FIRM SLAP.
The sleeper does not even stir.

                    YUSUF
          See? Very stable.

                    COBB
          How long do they dream?

                    YUSUF
          Three, four hours. Every day.

                    COBB
          How long in dream time?

                    YUSUF
          With this compound... about forty
          hours. Each and every day.

Saito surveys the room, appalled.

                    SAITO
          Why do they do it?

                    YUSUF
          Tell him, Mr. Cobb.

                    COBB
          After a while...
              (looks at Saito)
          It becomes the only way you can
          dream.

                    YUSUF
          Do you still dream, Mr. Cobb?

Cobb STARES at the sleepers. Uneasy.

                    EAMES
          They come here every day to sleep?
                                                        53.

                       ELDERLY BALD MAN (O.S.)
          No.

Cobb turns to the Elderly Bald Man, who looks fondly at his
dreamers.

                    ELDERLY BALD MAN
          They come to be woken up... the
          dream has become their reality...

The Elderly Bald Man pokes a crooked finger at Cobb's chest.

                    ELDERLY BALD MAN
          And who are you to say otherwise?

Cobb STARES at the Elderly Bald Man. DISTURBED. Cobb turns to
Yusuf. TOSSES him the bottle.

                    COBB
          Let's see what you can do.

INT. SAME - MOMENTS LATER

Cobb is lying on an empty cot, asleep. Yusuf stands over him.
As we move in on Cobb's SLEEPING FACE we hear the sound of a
FREIGHT TRAIN, BUILDING, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

EXT. WASTELAND - DAY

CLOSE ON Cobb's face as he lies, EYES CLOSED, cheek pressed
to a METAL RAIL- THE SOUND OF THE TRAIN IS DEAFENING- Cobb is
BREATHING, BREATHING, BREATHING, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BACK ROOM, PHARMACY - DAY

Cobb's eyes open. Yusuf is watching him.

                       YUSUF
          Sharp, no?

Cobb nods. Gets to his feet, looking around-

INT. BATHROOM, PHARMACY - CONTINUOUS

Cobb SPLASHES water on his face, breathing hard- INSERT CUT:
A CURTAIN BILLOWS. MAL TURNS TO US, HAIR BLOWING, SMILING.
Cobb fumbles in his pockets, pulls out his spinning top. He
tries to set it spinning on the back edge of the sink, but it
FALLS to the floor and rolls towards the door- Saito is
there. WATCHING Cobb. He looks down at the spinning top.
                                                         54.

                    SAITO
          Everything alright, Mr. Cobb?

Cobb dries his face with a paper towel. Picks up his top.

                    COBB
          Everything's fine.

INT. BACK ROOM, WORKSHOP - NIGHT

Close on a small BRASS CHESS PIECE. Ariadne tips it over.
Frowning, she picks up a micro drill, peels back the felt on
the bottom and widens a hole in one side of its base. Tests
the TIPPING POINT again. A NOISE makes her look up.

INT. WORKSHOP - CONTINUOUS

Ariadne comes into the main space. Someone is there,
unpacking one of the MECHANISMS. Cobb.

                    ARIADNE
          You're back.

Cobb looks up with a start. Caught out.

                    ARIADNE
          Are you going under on your own?

                    COBB
          I just-I need to test some things.
          I didn't realize anyone was here.

                    ARIADNE
          Just working on my totem.

Ariadne holds up the chess piece. Cobb reaches for it.

                    COBB
          Let me see-

Ariadne SNAPS it out of his reach. Smiles. Cobb nods.

                    COBB
          You're learning.

                    ARIADNE
          It's an elegant solution to keeping
          track of reality. Your invention?

                       COBB
          No. Mal's.

Cobb pulls out his spinning top. Looks at it.
                                                      55.

                    COBB
          This one was hers. She'd spin it in
          a dream and it would never topple.
          Just spin and spin...

                    ARIADNE
          Arthur told me she died.

                    COBB
          She did. How are the mazes coming?

Ariadne indicates three large ARCHITECTURAL MODELS.

                    ARIADNE
          Good. Each level relates to the
          part of the subject's subconscious
          we're trying to access. I'm making
          the bottom level a hospital, so
          that Fischer will bring his father
          there-

                    COBB
          Don't tell me. Remember, you only
          want the dreamer to know the
          layout.

                    ARIADNE
          Why's that so important?

                    COBB
          In case one of us brings in part of
          our subconscious. You wouldn't want
          any projections knowing the layout.

                    ARIADNE
          In case you bring Mal in.

Cobb says nothing.

                    ARIADNE
          You won't build yourself because if
          you know the maze, then she knows
          it. And she'd sabotage the
          operation. You can't keep her out,
          can you?

Cobb says nothing.

                    ARIADNE
          Do the others know?

                     COBB
          No.
                                                        56.

                    ARIADNE
          You have to warn them if it's
          getting worse-

                    COBB
              (gentle)
          I didn't say it's getting worse.
          Look, Ariadne, I need them for this
          job. I need you for this job.
          Without your help, I'll never get
          back to my children. And that's all
          I can care about right now.

                    ARIADNE
          Why can't you go home, Cobb?

Cobb looks at her, deciding what to say.

                    COBB
          They think I killed her.

                    ARIADNE
          How did she die?

Cobb thinks.

INSERT CUT: Mal, wind BLOWING her hair, smiles at Cobb. Now
we see Cobb- SHAKING HIS HEAD, TEARS STREAMING, BEGGING-
                       COBB
          Thank you.

                       ARIADNE
          For what?

                    COBB
          Not asking whether I did.

INT. WORKSHOP - DAY

Ariadne, Arthur, Yusuf, Eames and Saito sit around the room,
looking at FILES. Cobb presides.

                    COBB
          The mark is Robert Fischer, heir to
          the Australian energy conglomerate,
          Fischer Morrow.

Cobb opens a large presentation pad.

                    COBB (reads aloud)
          "I WILL SPLIT UP MY FATHER'S
          EMPIRE."

Cobb turns to the team.
                                                  57.

                    COBB
          An idea Robert Fischer's conscious
          mind would never accept. We have to
          plant it deep in his subconscious.

                      ARTHUR
          How deep?

                    COBB
          Three levels down.

                    ARTHUR
          A dream within a dream within a
          dream? Is that even possible?

                    COBB
          Yes. It is.

                    COBB
          Now, the subconscious motivates
          through emotion, not reason, so we
          have to translate the idea into an
          emotional concept.

                    ARTHUR
          How do you translate a business
          strategy into an emotion?

                    COBB
          That's what we have to figure out.
          Robert and his father have a tense
          relationship. Worse, even, than the
          gossip columns have suggested...

                    EAMES
          Do you play on that? Suggest
          breaking up his father's company as
          a 'screw you' to the old man?

                    COBB
          No. Positive emotion trumps
          negative emotion every time. We
          yearn for people to be reconciled,
          for catharsis. We need positive
          emotional logic.

Eames thinks. Paces. Looking back at the board.

                    EAMES
          Try this... "MY FATHER ACCEPTS THAT
          I WANT TO CREATE FOR MYSELF, NOT
          FOLLOW IN HIS FOOTSTEPS."

                    COBB
          That might work.
                                                         58.

                    ARTHUR
          Might? We'll have to do better than
          that.

                    EAMES
          Thanks for the contribution,
          Arthur.

                    ARTHUR
          Forgive me for wanting a little
          specificity, Eames.

                    COBB
          Inception's not about specificity.
          When we get inside his head, we're
          going to have to work with what we
          find.

Arthur shrugs, frustrated. And we-

                                                  CUT TO:

EXT. NEW YORK STREETS - DAY

The team are in the middle of a DESERTED intersection.
Ariadne is showing Yusuf aspects of the geography.

                    EAMES
          We could split the idea into
          emotional triggers, and use one on
          each level.

                    COBB
          How do you mean?

                    EAMES
          On the top level, we open up his
          relationship with his father....
          Say: "I WILL NOT FOLLOW IN MY
          FATHER'S FOOTSTEPS." Next level
          down we've accessed his ambition
          and self-esteem. We feed him: "I
          WILL CREATE SOMETHING MYSELF."
          Then, the bottom level, we bring
          out the emotional big guns...

                    COBB
          "MY FATHER DOESN'T WANT ME TO BE
          HIM."

                    EAMES
          That could do it.

                    ARTHUR
          How do you produce these emotional
          triggers?
                                                        59.

                    EAMES
          I forge each emotional concept in
          the style and manner of Peter
          Browning, a key figure in Fischer's
          emotional life.

Two AFRICAN PEDESTRIANS wander into view.

                    ARTHUR
          Are those yours?

Eames shakes his head. Cobb turns to Yusuf.

                    ARTHUR
          Yusuf?

                    YUSUF
          Yup. Sorry.

                    COBB
          Suppress them. We don't bring our
          own projections into the dream-we
          let Fischer's subconscious supply
          the people.

                    EAMES
          Saito, when do I get to see
          Browning?

                    SAITO
          You fly out to Sydney on Tuesday.
          We've arranged for you to spend
          several days...

INT. ANTEROOM, MAURICE FISCHER'S OFFICE - DAY

Eames sits in the crowded room. Boxes and files are piled
high. Browning stands by a pair of double doors.

                    SAITO (V.O.)
          ...as part of a consulting
          litigation team working for
          Browning.

                    BROWNING
          I'm not smelling settlement here-we
          take them down.

                    LAWYER
          Mr. Browning, Maurice Fischer's
          policy is always one of avoiding
          litigation-

Browning turns to the lawyer. Calm, but POWERFUL.
                                                           60.

                    BROWNING
          Shall we relay your concerns
          directly to Maurice?

Browning opens the doors to Maurice Fischer's inner office.
Eames leans in to watch as Browning beckons the Lawyer into-

INT. MAURICE FISCHER'S INNER OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

The office is a MAKESHIFT HOSPITAL ROOM: a BED where the desk
should be. Browning addresses a figure at the window. ROBERT
FISCHER, 30'S, abstracted.

                       BROWNING
          How is he?

Fischer turns to Browning. Motions silence, as he glances at
his FATHER in the bed. Wheezing gently.

                    BROWNING
          I don't want to bother him
          unnecessarily but I know he-

                     FATHER
          Robert! I've told you to keep out
          the damn!-

MAURICE LASHES OUT, KNOCKING things from his bedside table. A
NURSE calms Maurice as Fischer crouches to retrieve a FRAMED
PHOTOGRAPH. He looks at the photo through the broken glass- a
YOUNG BOY holds a PINWHEEL CLEARLY MADE BY A CHILD (each of
the points is numbered in pen), his FATHER blows on it.

                    BROWNING
          Must be a cherished memory of his-

                    FISCHER
          I put it by his bed. He hasn't even
          noticed.

                    BROWNING
          Robert, we have to talk about a
          power of attorney. I know this is
          hard for you, but it's important
          that we start to think about the
          future-

                    FISCHER
          Not now, Uncle Peter.

Browning looks at Fischer, considering. Biding his time.

                    EAMES (V.O.)
          The vultures are circling. The
          sicker Maurice Fischer becomes, the
          stronger Peter Browning becomes...
                                                         61.

Eames WATCHES Browning, STUDYING his every move .

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Eames gestures at a mirror, as if offering to shake hands...

                    EAMES (V.O.)
          I've had time to learn Browning's
          physical presence and mannerisms...
In the mirror: BROWNING GESTURES BACK.

INT. WORKSHOP - CONTINUOUS

                    EAMES
          Now, in the dream, I can impersonate
          Browning and suggest the concepts to
          Fischer's conscious mind...
              (draws a diagram)
          Then we take Fischer down another
          level and his own subconscious
          feeds it right back to him.

                    ARTHUR
              (impressed)
          So he gives himself the idea.

                    EAMES
          Precisely. That's the only way
          to make it stick. It has to seem
          self-generated.

                    ARTHUR
          Eames, I'm impressed.

                    EAMES
          Your condescension, as always, is
          much appreciated, Arthur.

                                                    CUT TO:

INT. DESERTED HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

The team sit on the steps of the large marble lobby,
debating. Ariadne is showing Arthur the lobby.

                    EAMES
          He's not scheduled for surgery, no
          dental, nothing.

                    COBB
          I thought he had some knee thing?

                    EAMES
          Nothing they'd put him under for.
          Besides, we need a good ten hours.
                                                        62.

                    SAITO
          Sydney to Los Angeles.

They turn to Saito.

                    SAITO
          Twelve hours and forty-five
          minutes-one of the longest flights
          in the world. He makes it every two
          weeks...

EXT. AIRFIELD - DAY

Fischer steps out of a black town car and walks across the
tarmac towards a GULF STREAM JET, accompanied by two aides.

                    COBB (V.O.)
          Surely he flies private?

                    SAITO (V.O.)
          Not if there were unexpected
          maintenance with his plane.

Fischer is met at the steps by a DISTRAUGHT FLIGHT OFFICER.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY

Cobb chews this over. Arthur comes over.

                    ARTHUR
          It'd have to be a 747.

                      COBB
          Why?

                     ARTHUR
          On a 747 the pilots are up above,
          first class is in the nose so
          nobody walks through the cabin.
          We'd have to buyout the whole
          cabin, and the first class flight
          attendant-

                    SAITO
          We bought the airline.

Everyone turns to Saito.

                    SAITO
          It seemed... neater.

                    COBB
          Neater, huh?
              (gets to his feet)
          Well, now we have ten uninterrupted
          hours.
                    (MORE)
                                                         63.
                    COBB (CONT'D)
              (to Ariadne)
          Nice lobby, by the way.

And we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. WORKSHOP - DAY

The group is back in the workshop, deep in discussion.

                    ARTHUR
          My question is how we go down three
          layers with enough stability. Three
          layers down a little turbulence is
          gonna translate into an earthquake.
          The dreams are gonna collapse with
          the slightest disturbance.

Yusuf clears his throat.

                    YUSUF
          Sedation. For sleep stable enough to
          create three layers of dreaming...

INT. MAKESHIFT LAB - DAY

Yusuf depresses a plunger. Arthur is SLEEPING in a chair.

                    YUSUF (V.O.)
          We will have to combine it with an
          extremely powerful sedative....

Eames SLAPS Arthur, HARD. Arthur does not stir.

INT. WORKSHOP - DAY

Arthur unconsciously rubs his cheek.

                    YUSUF
          The compound we'll be using to
          share the dream is an advanced
          Somnacin derivative. It creates a
          very clear connection between
          dreamers, whilst actually
          accelerating brain function.

                                                  CUT TO:

                    COBB
          Buying us more time in each level.

                    YUSUF
          Brain function in the dream will be
          about twenty times normal.
                    (MORE)
                                                          64.
                    YUSUF (CONT'D)
          And when you go into a dream within
          that dream the effect is
          compounded.

                    ARIADNE
          How much time?

                    YUSUF
          Three dreams... that's ten hours,
          times twenty, times twenty, times
          twenty...

                    EAMES
          Math was never my strong suit.

                    COBB
          It's basically a week one layer
          down, six months two layers down-

                    ARIADNE
          And ten years in the third level.
          Who wants to spend ten years in a
          dream?

                    YUSUF
          Depends on the dream.

                     EAMES
          It's not going to take us long to
          crack Fischer open once we get
          going. We'll be out in a couple
          days, max.

                     ARTHUR
          How do we get out once we've made
          the plant?
              (to Cobb)
          I hope you've got something a
          little more elegant in mind than
          shooting me in the head like last
          time.

Arthur tilts back in his chair. Yusuf turns to Cobb.

                    COBB
          A kick.

                    ARIADNE
          What's a kick?

Eames slips his foot under Arthur's chair leg. TIPS it-
Arthur's legs SHOOT UP INSTINCTIVELY for balance-

                    EAMES
          That, Ariadne, would be a kick.
                                                          65.

                    COBB
          That feeling of falling which snaps
          you awake. We use that to jolt
          ourselves awake once we're done.

                    ARTHUR
          But how are we going to feel that
          through the sedation?

                    YUSUF
          That's the clever part. I customize
          the sedative...

INT. MAKESHIFT LAB - DAY

Cobb, Eames and Yusuf watch Arthur, ASLEEP, in a chair.

                    YUSUF (O.S.)
          To leave inner ear function
          unimpaired...

Yusuf, with a wicked grin, slowly TIPS Arthur's chair
backwards... as he falls, Arthur's body JERKS, EYES OPENING
just before he HITS the floor.

INT. WORKSHOP - DAY

Arthur thinks, nodding slowly.

                    YUSUF
          That way, however deep the sleep, the
          sleeper will still feel falling...

INT. MAKESHIFT LAB - DAY

Yusuf gleefully LEANS a SLEEPING ARTHUR to one side ...

                    YUSUF (V.O.)
          Or tipping...

Arthur goes down with a CRASH, JERKING AWAKE-

INT. WORKSHOP - DAY

Arthur thinks this through.

                    ARTHUR
          Even that won't cut through three
          layers of deep sleep.

                    COBB
          The trick is to devise a kick for
          each level, then synchronize them
          to get a snap that penetrates all
          three layers.
                                                        66.

Arthur looks at Cobb, getting it.

                    ARTHUR
          We can use the musical countdown to
          synchronize the different kicks.

INT. WORKSHOP - NIGHT

Ariadne comes into the darkened main space. Cobb is lying on
one of the chairs, asleep. Plugged into the mechanism.
Ariadne stands over him. Watching.

She opens the case, PULLS one of the tubes, sits, checking
the dials as she injects the needle cap into her arm, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. CAGE STYLE ELEVATOR - DAY

Ariadne ascends. She looks at the buttons. Spots the "B." The
elevator STOPS. She looks through the grill at-

INT. YOUNG GIRL'S BEDROOM - DAY

Ariadne pulls back the grill and walks across the room,
considering the dusty furnishings. At the window is a doll's
house, front slightly ajar. Ariadne opens it. Inside is a
SAFE. She tries it. LOCKED. A NOISE STARTLES her- she turns,
looking through a doorway into another room...

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Ariadne looks into the room to see Cobb and Mal talking,
arguing. A private moment. Mal brushes at Cobb's hair, trying
to convince him. We hear snatches of conversation-

                     MAL
          You remember when you asked me to
          marry you?

                    COBB
          Of course...

                    MAL
          You said you had a dream...

                    COBB
          That we'd grow old together.

                    MAL
          And we can. You know how to find
          me... you know what you have to do.

Cobb is shaking his head, gently. Mal looks into Cobb's eyes-
gentle, loving... Mal SPOTS Ariadne spying on them.
                                                          67.

FREEZES, staring, hostile. Cobb turns, sees Ariadne, moves
towards her, leaving Mal.

                    COBB
          You shouldn't be in here.

Cobb guides her back into the elevator.

                    ARIADNE
          I wanted to know what "tests" you
          need to do on your own every night.

INT. CAGE STYLE ELEVATOR - DAY

Cobb shuts the CAGE DOOR. Ariadne hits a button. The elevator
RISES. Through the GRILL Ariadne can see a BEACH stretching
off into the distance. The elevator stops. Mal sits on the
sand. Beside her, the two children are crouched, away from
us, building a SANDCASTLE.

                    ARIADNE
          Why do you do this to yourself?

                    COBB
          This is the only way I can still
          dream.

                    ARIADNE
          Is it so important to dream?

Cobb stares at his family.

                    COBB
          In my dreams... we're still together.

The kids, WITHOUT TURNING AROUND, jump up and RUN AWAY.

INT. CAGE STYLE ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

The elevator descends.

                    ARIADNE
          But these aren't just dreams, are
          they? They're memories. You said
          never to use memories.

                    COBB
          And I shouldn't.

                    ARIADNE
          You're keeping her alive.

                    COBB
          No.
                                                          68.

                    ARIADNE
          You can't let her go.

                    COBB
          No. These are moments I regret.
          Moments I turned into dreams so I
          could change them.

Ariadne's fingers move across the buttons- stop at the "B."

                    ARIADNE
          What've you got buried down there
          that you regret?

Cobb pushes her hand away. Hits the third floor button.

                    COBB
          There's only one thing I need you
          to understand about me...

INT. KITCHEN, COBB AND MAL'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Ariadne follows Cobb into the kitchen. A THIN MAN is there,
standing by the table. He holds a FOLDED PIECE OF PAPER.

                    ARIADNE
          This is your house?

                    COBB
          Mine and Mal's.

                    ARIADNE
          Where is she?

                    COBB
          She'd already died.

The Thin Man offers Cobb the piece of paper. A CHILD'S SHOUT-
Cobb TURNS. Ariadne follows his gaze to the garden. A small
blonde boy faces away from them, crouched on his haunches to
look at something on the ground.

                    COBB
          It's James. My boy. He's found
          something. Maybe a worm.

A slightly older girl RUNS into view.

                    COBB
          And there's Philippa.

She crouches beside the boy. Their FACES ARE AWAY FROM US.
They point and discuss whatever is on the ground.
                                                        69.

                    COBB
          I thought about calling out, so
          they'd turn and smile those
          incredible smiles... but I'm out of
          time-

The Thin Man thrusts the paper into Cobb's hand.

                    THIN MAN
          Right now. Or never, Cobb.

Cobb nods, turns from the window-

                    COBB
          Then I panic that I'll always wish
          I'd seen them turn, that I can't
          waste this chance...

Cobb TURNS BACK to call out- but the children RACE OFF...

                    COBB
          But the moment's passed. And
          whatever I do, the dream's always
          the same... When I'm about to
          call... they run.

Cobb watches them run off, calling for grandma, FACES UNSEEN.

                    COBB
          If I'm going to see their faces
          again-I've got to get back here in
          the real world...

Behind him, Ariadne SLAMS the grill shut. Cobb TURNS.

INT. CAGE STYLE ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

Ariadne hits the BASEMENT button. The elevator starts to
DESCEND. ariadne STARES, fascinated as glimpses of floors
slip past: Mal's childhood bedroom, a thundering wall of
freight train... The elevator STOPS. Through the grill
Ariadne sees a HOTEL SUITE. She pulls open the grill, steps
cautiously out into-

INT. ELEGANT HOTEL SUITE - CONTINUOUS (NOW NIGHT)

DISHEVELED bedclothes, UPENDED room service table,
STRAWBERRIES across the floor. A STRUGGLE. Ariadne steps
forwards- SMASH- she looks down to see that she has kicked
over a CHAMPAGNE FLUTE. Ariadne feels a draught. The CURTAIN
BILLOWS.

                    MAL (O.S.)
          What are you doing here?

Ariadne TURNS. Mal is there.
                                                        70.

                    ARIADNE
          My name is-

                    MAL
          I know who you are. What are you
          doing here?

                    ARIADNE
          I don't know. Trying to understand.

                    MAL
          How could you understand? Do you
          know what it is to be a lover? To
          be half of a whole?

                    ARIADNE
          No.

Mal moves slowly towards Ariadne...

                    MAL
          I'll tell you a riddle. You're
          waiting for a train. A train that
          will take you far away. You know
          where you hope this train will take
          you, but you don't know for sure...

Mal glides around Ariadne, looking her over.

                    MAL
          But... it doesn't matter. How can
          it not matter to you where that
          train will take you?

                    COBB (O.S.)
          Because you'll be together.

Cobb is standing in the elevator. Mal nods. Looks at him.

                    MAL
          How could you bring her here, Dom?

                    ARIADNE
          What is this place?

                    COBB
          A hotel. We spent our anniversaries
          in this suite.

                    ARIADNE
          What happened here?

Mal picks up the BROKEN STEM of a champagne flute...
                                                        71.

INT. CAGE STYLE ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

Cobb PULLS Ariadne into the elevator- Mal THROWS herself
towards Ariadne- Cobb SLAMS the GRILL- Mal SMASHES against it
AGAIN and AGAIN like a WILD ANIMAL- Ariadne FLINCHES-

                     MAL
          you PROMISED! YOU SAID WE'D BE
          TOGETHER!-

                    COBB
          We can. We will. But I need you to
          stay here for now-

                    MAL
          YOU SAID WE'D GROW OLD TOGETHER!-

Cobb pushes a button and the elevator starts to rise.

                    COBB
          I'll come back. I need you to stay
          here on your own for now. Just
          while I do this job. Then we can be
          together-

                    MAL
          WE'LL BE TOGETHER-YOU PROMISED!-

Mal THROWS herself against the grill, and. we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. WORKSHOP - NIGHT

Ariadne watches Cobb sleeping. His eyes gradually flicker
open. He sees her watching him.

                    ARIADNE
          You think you can just build a
          prison of memories to lock her in?
          You think that's going to contain
          her?

The LIGHTS COME ON: Saito and Arthur stand in the doorway.

                    SAITO
          Maurice Fischer just died in Sydney.

                    COBB
          When's the funeral?

                    SAITO
          Thursday. In Los Angeles.
                                                        72.

                    COBB
          Robert'll accompany the body
          Tuesday at the outside. We have to
          move.

Cobb gets up. Ariadne comes over to him.

                    ARIADNE
              (low)
          I'm coming with you.

                    COBB
          No. I promised Miles.

                    ARIADNE
          The team needs someone in there who
          understands what you're struggling
          with. If you don't want it to be me
          then you need to show Arthur what I
          just saw.

Cobb looks at Ariadne. Turns to Saito.

                    COBB
          We need one more seat on the plane.

INT. DEPARTURE GATE, SYDNEY - DAY

Saito stands looking out the window at a 747. Cobb arrives
beside him. They watch a COFFIN being loaded.

                    COBB
          If I get on this plane and you
          haven't taken care of things...
          when we land I go to jail for the
          rest of my life.

                    SAITO
          Complete the job en route, I make
          one phone call from the plane...
          you will have no trouble clearing
          immigration.

INT. FIRST CLASS CABIN, 747 - CONTINUOUS

The luxurious cabin has only ten seats. Cobb finds his- sees
Ariadne in the seat behind his. They do not acknowledge each
other. Behind her is Arthur, looking out the window. Eames
enters, STUFFS his bag into the overhead bin, BLOCKING the
passenger behind: ROBERT FISCHER, standing there, patient,
bag in hand, wearing black.

                       EAMES
          Oh, sorry.
                                                          73.

Eames SQUEEZES up against his seat to let Fischer BRUSH PAST.
Fischer moves to his seat, directly in front of Cobb. Eames
TOSSES Cobb a PASSPORT. Cobb flips it open: Fischer's.
Pockets it. Yusuf and Saito enter, take their seats.

EXT. RUNWAY - MOMENTS LATER

The 747 HURTLES down the runway.

INT. FIRST CLASS CABIN, 747 - MOMENTS LATER

Cobb looks down at his hand: a TINY VIAL taped to the center
of his palm. He removes the cap. The seatbelt sign goes dark.
Cobb unbuckles, stands.

                       COBB
          Excuse me?

Fischer looks up.

                       FISCHER
          Yes?

                    COBB
          I think this is yours...

Cobb holds up the open passport, comparing the picture to
Fischer. Fischer's hand goes to his pocket. Cobb hands
Fischer the passport.

                    FLIGHT ATTENDANT
          Would you gentlemen care for a
          drink?

                       FISCHER
          Water.

                       COBB
          Same.

Fischer gives Cobb a thin smile. Holds up his passport.

                    FISCHER
          Well, thank you.

                    COBB
          No problem. Look, I couldn't help
          noticing your name. You're not
          related to Maurice Fischer?

Fischer takes a beat. But Cobb seems harmless.

                    FISCHER
          Actually, he was my father.
                                                        74.

                    COBB
          I'm very sorry for your loss. He
          was an inspiring figure.

The Flight Attendant brings their drinks- Cobb takes them.

                    COBB
          Thanks.

As he turns to Fischer he LOWERS his right hand ... a CLEAR
LIQUID DROPS into Fischer's water as Cobb hands it to him.

                    COBB
          To Maurice Fischer.
              (they drink)
          I'll leave you in peace.

Fischer grants him a smile.

EXT. 747 - LATER

The great plane SOARS through a burning cloudscape.

INT. FIRST CLASS CABIN, 747 - MOMENTS LATER

Cobb reaches into the overhead for a blanket- lets it fall
onto Fischer's head- Fischer doesn't flinch. ASLEEP. Cobb
SIGNALS the others. The First Flight Attendant unlocks a
CUPBOARD in the galley, then leaves, closing the curtain.
Arthur moves into the galley and pulls out a MECHANISM CASE.

Cobb and Arthur open the mechanism- uncoil the tubes- feed
them around the window side of each of the seats. Arthur
rolls up Fischer's cuff- PUSHES the needle cap into Fischer's
wrist. Arthur pulls Fischer's cuff down and hides the tubes
behind the armrest of Fischer's seat.

Arthur runs the next tube to Ariadne. Cobb puts the case on
Yusuf's lap. Yusuf checks the TIMERS, tapping the syringes.
The others recline their seats. Yusuf HITS A BUTTON- closes
the case- places it at his feet. He settles back, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. SEDAN - DAY

Cobb DRIVES. Saito and Arthur are in the back. Rain BEATS
down. Cobb pulls over-

EXT. NEW YORK STREETS - CONTINUOUS

Yusuf stands on the corner, silver briefcase in hand, collar
turned up against the rain. He reaches for the door.
                                                          75.

INT. SEDAN - CONTINUOUS

Yusuf clambers into the back, brushing rain from his face.

                    ARTHUR
              (indicates rain)
          Couldn't you have peed before you
          went under?

                       YUSUF
          Sorry.

The front door OPENS and Eames climbs in, soaked.

                    EAMES
          Bit too much free champagne before
          takeoff, Yusuf?

                    YUSUF
          Ha bloody ha.

                    COBB
          At least we know he'll be looking
          for a cab in this.

INT./EXT. SEDAN ON RAINY NEW YORK STREETS - CONTINUOUS

Cobb pulls out into the heavy traffic. He weaves around
several cars before lining up behind a YELLOW CAB.

                    COBB
          Brace yourselves.

Cobb hits the gas- REAR ENDS the cab with a CRUNCH. The
CABDRIVER gets out, fuming. Heads to Cobb's window-

                    CABDRIVER
          Hey, asshole! Why don't you try
          driving without your thumb up-

He sees the SILENCED PISTOL Cobb is holding at his belly.

                       COBB
          Walk away.

The Cabdriver backs off. Arthur climbs into the cab. Both
cars pull away.

INT./EXT. CAB ON RAINY NEW YORK STREETS - CONTINUOUS

Arthur SLOWS in front of the TRAIN STATION, peering at the
pedes pedestrians. He SPOTS Fischer, lights the cab's sign.
Fischer FLAGS him down. Fischer JUMPS into the back, brushing
rain from his shoulders.
                                                           76.

                    FISCHER
          Third and Market. Snappy.

Eames JUMPS in from the other side.

                    FISCHER
          What're you doing?

                    EAMES
          Sorry, I thought it was free. Maybe
          we could share.

                       FISCHER
          Maybe not.

Saito gets into the front passenger seat. Pointing a gun.

                       FISCHER
          Great.

Arthur pulls away. Fischer pulls out his wallet and tosses it
at Eames.

                    FISCHER
              (contemptuous)
          There's 500 dollars in there. And
          the wallet's worth more than that.
          For that you ought to at least drop
          me at my stop.

Eames smiles at this.

                    EAMES
          I'm afraid-

A SHOT SHATTERS the window by Eames's head- another SHOT
IMPACTS by Saito-

                    EAMES
          Get us out of here!

Arthur hits the gas, but a BLACK S.U.V. SKIDS sideways in
front, BLOCKING the path-

A BLOCK BEHIND- Cobb is at a light. ARIADNE is getting in the
front. Cobb has HEARD the GUNFIRE-

                       COBB
          Come on!-

Cobb looks ahead to the AMBUSH, hits the gas- the sedan
ROCKETS forwards... but BAM- A FREIGHT TRAIN CLIPS THE FRONT
OF THE SEDAN, SHOVING IT SIDEWAYS AS AN ENDLESS TRAIN BARRELS
PAST, A WALL BETWEEN COBB AND THE AMBUSH-
                                                           77.

A SECOND S.U.V. is behind the cab- PLAIN CLOTHES SECURITY MEN
advance through the traffic, weapons trained on the cab.
Bullets RIP into the cab as Eames throws himself on top of
Fischer, PULLING a SACK over his head-

Inside the sedan, Ariadne watches the train passing-

                    ARIADNE
          This wasn't in the design-

Cobb BACKS UP, SPINS around, heading for the tail of the
train-

A Security Man emerges from the front S.U.V. carrying an
AUTOMATIC RIFLE- he steps towards the cab through the rain,
raises his weapon and BLASTS THE CAB'S WINDSCREEN-

Cobb clears the end of the train, and SKIDS across the tracks-

Arthur CROUCHES down- PUSHES the accelerator with his HAND-
YANKS the wheel- FLYING BLIND. The cab NAILS the Security
Man, CRUNCHING into the front S.U.V.-

Cobb SMASHES his car into the rear S.U.V., creating a GAP-

Arthur YANKS the transmission and REVERSES- SCRAPING through
the gap- Security Men DIVE out of the way- Arthur throws a
ragged J-turn to head down a SIDE STREET- Cobb follows in the
other car. Rain whips across Arthur's face as he BREATHES-

                    ARTHUR
          Everybody okay? Saito?

Arthur looks at Saito. Saito's hand is at his belly. Covered
in BLOOD.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

The sedan and cab pull into the side entrance- Eames jumps
out- PULLS the shutter down behind them-

INT. WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Yusuf and Eames PULL Fischer from the cab, HUSTLING him
through a doorway. Cobb JUMPS out of the sedan, furious.

                    COBB
          Arthur! Arthur what the-

Arthur pulls the bloody Saito from the front seat.

                    COBB
          Oh, Christ. Is he dying?
                                        78.

          ARTHUR
I don't know. What happened back
there? Where were you?

          COBB
We were blocked by a freight train.

          ARTHUR
    (to Ariadne)
Why would you put a train crossing
in a downtown intersection?

             ARIADNE
I didn't.

          COBB
    (snaps)
Why were we all ambushed, Arthur?!
Those weren't regular projections-
they'd been trained!

          ARIADNE
How could they be trained?

          ARTHUR
Fischer's had an extractor teach
his mind to defend itself. His
subconscious is militarized. It
should've shown on the research-

          COBB
So why the hell didn't it?!

             ARTHUR
Calm down.

          COBB
Don't tell me to calm down-you were
meant to check Fischer's background
thoroughly. You can't make this
kind of mistake-we're not prepared
for this kind of violence-

          ARTHUR
Cobb, we've dealt with sub-security
before. We just have to be more-

          COBB
This wasn't part of the plan, Arthur!
    (points at Saito)
He's dying!

          EAMES
So we put him out of his misery.
                                                          79.

Eames steps into the room, pulls his gun and moves over
Saito.

                    COBB
          No.

                    EAMES
          He's in agony. Let's wake him up-

Cobb GRABS Eames's arm.

                    COBB
          No!
              (they lock eyes)
          It won't wake him up.

                    EAMES
          What do you mean, it won't wake
          him? When you die in a dream you
          wake up.

                    YUSUF
          Not from this. We're too heavily
          sedated to wake up that way.

Eames looks at Yusuf, then to Cobb.

                    EAMES
          So what happens if one of us dies?

                    COBB
          That person doesn't wake up. Their
          mind drops into Limbo.

                    ARIADNE
          Limbo?

                    ARTHUR
          Unconstructed dream space.

                    ARIADNE
          What's down there?

                    ARTHUR
          Raw, infinite subconscious. Nothing
          there but what was left behind by
          anyone on the team who's been trapped
          there before. On this team... just
          Cobb.

                    ARIADNE
          How long would we be stuck there?
                                                        80.

                    YUSUF
          You couldn't even think about
          trying to escape until the sedation
          eases-

                      EAMES
          How long?

                    YUSUF
          Decades-it could be infinite-I
          don't know! Ask him-he's the one
          who's been there before!

Eames moves to Cobb. Looks him in the eye.

                    EAMES
          Great. So now we're stuck in
          Fischer's mind battling it out with
          his private army, and if we get hit
          we're stuck in Limbo 'til our
          brains dissolve into scrambled egg?

Cobb says nothing. Saito groans more loudly.

                    ARTHUR
          Let's just get him upstairs.

INT. OFFICE, WAREHOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Saito is laid out on an old desk. Arthur examines him. He
motions to Ariadne. Eames watches Cobb.

                    ARTHUR
          Hold this. Firm pressure.

Arthur turns to Cobb.

                    ARTHUR
          You knew the risks and you didn't
          tell us.

                    COBB
          There wasn't meant to be any risk.
          We weren't supposed to be dealing
          with a load of gunnre.

                    ARTHUR
          You had no right.

                    COBB
          It's the only way you can go three
          layers deep, Arthur.

Arthur turns to Yusuf, hostile.
                                                81.

                    ARTHUR
          And you. You went along with this?

                    YUSUF
          I trusted him.

                    ARTHUR
          You trusted him? When? When he
          promised you half his share?

                    YUSUF
              (offended)
          No! His whole share. Plus, he told
          me he'd done it before.

Arthur turns to Cobb.

                    ARTHUR
          Oh, yeah? With Mal? That worked out
          great, didn't it, Cobb?

Cobb grabs Arthur.

                    COBB
          You don't know anything about that.
          This was the only way to do this
          job, Arthur. I did what I had to do
          to get back to my children.

                    EAMES
          So you led us into a war zone with
          no way out.

                    COBB
          We have a way out. The kick. We
          just have to push on, do the job as
          fast as possible and get out using
          the kick.

                    EAMES
          Forget it. We go any deeper, we
          just raise the stakes. I'm sitting
          it out on this level.

                    COBB
          You'll never make it, Eames.
          Fischer's security is surrounding
          this place as we speak. The ten
          hours of the flight is a week at
          this level-you'll never make it
          without getting killed. Downwards
          is the only way forwards. We have
          to carry on.

Saito groans. Cobb looks at him-
                                                           82.

                    COBB
          And we have to do it fast.

Eames and Arthur weigh this.

                    COBB
          Eames, go get ready. Arthur, let's
          get in there and soften him up.

INT. BATHROOM, WAREHOUSE - LATER

Cobb and Arthur, wearing BALACLAVAS, PULL the sack from
Fischer's head. He is chained to the radiator.

                    FISCHER
          I'm insured against kidnapping up
          to ten million-this'll be simple-

                    COBB
          No, it won't.

Fischer looks at Cobb, unnerved.

                    ARTHUR
          In. your lather's office, below the
          bookshelves, is his personal safe.
          We need the combination.

                    FISCHER
          I never noticed a safe-

                    COBB
          Doesn't mean you don't know the
          combination.

                    FISCHER
          Well, I don't.

                    ARTHUR
          We have it on good authority that
          you do.

                    FISCHER
          Whose?

INT. OFFICE, WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Yusuf looks through Fischer's wallet. Eames is opening a
HINGED, THREE-WING MIRROR.

                    YUSUF
          Five hundred dollars, this cost?

                    EAMES
          What's inside?
                                                        83.

                    YUSUF
          Cash, cards, ID... and this-

Yusuf holds up a SNAPSHOT: the photo from Maurice Fischer's
office- YOUNG ROBERT holds his HOMEMADE PINWHEEL, his FATHER
blows on it. Eames takes it from Yusuf. STUDIES it. Cobb
enters. Eames hands him the snapshot.

                    EAMES
          Useful?

Cobb studies the snapshot. Eames examines himself in the
hinged mirror from multiple angles: ONE BY ONE the myriad
Eames reflections BECOME BROWNINGS. Cobb pockets the photo.

                    COBB
          You're on. You've got an hour.

                    EAMES
          An hour? I was supposed to have all
          night to crack him.

                    COBB
          And Saito was supposed to keep his
          guts on the inside. You've got an
          hour-get something we can use.

Eames turns from the mirror AS BROWNING. He glances at his
watch, then SCREAMS, as if begging for mercy-

INT. BATHROOM, WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Browning's CRY reverberates- Fischer looks up, concerned-

                    FISCHER
          What's that?

                    ARTHUR
          Good authority.

Another cry rings out. Fischer recognizes the voice.

                    FISCHER
          Uncle Peter?! Make them stop-

                    ARTHUR
          The combination.

                    FISCHER
          I don't know it!

                    ARTHUR
          Why would Browning tell us you did?

                    FISCHER
          Let me talk to him-I'll find out.
                                                        84.

INT. BATHROOM, WAREHOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Cobb pushes Browning (Eames), bloody and bruised, into the
room and forces him down next to Fischer. Cobb handcuffs
Browning's wrist to a metal bracket on the side of the sink.

                    COBB
          You've got an hour. Get talking.

Cobb leaves.

                    BROWNING (EAMES)
          They've had me for two days.
          They've got someone with access to
          your father's office and they're
          trying to open his safe-they
          thought I'd know the combination,
          but I don't-

                    FISCHER
          Neither do I, Uncle Peter.

                    BROWNING
              (confused)
          Maurice told me that after he
          passed only you would be able to
          open it.

                    FISCHER
          He never gave me the combination.

Browning thinks for a minute. Realizes something.

                    BROWNING
          He did, he just didn't tell you
          that it was a combination.

                    FISCHER
          What, then?

                    BROWNING
          Something only you would know. Some
          meaningful combination of numbers
          from your experiences with Maurice-

                    FISCHER
          We didn't have a lot of meaningful
          experiences together.

                    BROWNING
          Perhaps after your mother died...

                    FISCHER
          After my mother died, I went to him
          in my grief.
                    (MORE)
                                                        85.
                    FISCHER (CONT'D)
          You know what he told me? "There's
          really nothing to be said, Robert."

                     BROWNING
          He always had a hard time with
          emotional-

                    FISCHER
          I was eleven, Uncle Peter.

Browning (Eames) takes this in.

                    BROWNING
          He loved you, Robert. In his way.

                    FISCHER
          "In his way?" At the end he called
          me to his deathbed. He could barely
          speak, but he took the trouble to
          say one last thing to me. He pulled
          me close... I could make out only
          one word. "Disappointed."

Browning can say nothing.

INT. OFFICE, WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Cobb pulls off his balaclava. Looks down at Saito, who is
breathing fast, shallow.

                    COBB
          How's he doing?

                    ARIADNE
          He's in a lot of pain.

Cobb takes Saito's hand. Looks him in the eye.

                    COBB
          When we get you down to the next
          level, the pain will be less
          intense.

Saito nods, breathing hard.

                    ARIADNE
              (low)
          And if he dies?

                    COBB
          His conscious mind will drop out of
          the dream. He'll be trapped in
          Limbo for a lifetime...

                    ARIADNE
          What will that do to him?
                                                           86.

Cobb looks at her. Grave.

                    COBB
          When he wakes... his mind could be
          completely gone.

                    SAITO
          When... when we wake I will still
          honor our arrangement...

Cobb looks down at Saito sadly.

                    COBB
          Saito-san, when you wake you might
          not even remember that we had an
          arrangement. You'll have forgotten
          this world. Limbo will be your
          reality. Lost there so long, you'll
          have become an old man...

                    SAITO
          Filled with regret?

                    COBB
          Waiting to die alone. Yes.

                    SAITO
          Then I'll take the chance and come
          back. And we'll be young men
          together again.

Saito smiles weakly. Cobb nods at him, turns to Ariadne.

                    ARIADNE
          When were you trapped in Limbo?

Cobb says nothing. Ariadne pulls him away from Saito.

                    ARIADNE
          Cobb, you might have convinced the
          rest of this team to carry on with
          the job. But they don't know the
          truth.

                    COBB
          What truth?

                    ARIADNE
          The truth that at any minute you
          might bring a freight train through
          the wall. The truth that Mal is
          bursting up through your
          subconscious.
                    (MORE)
                                                         87.
                    ARIADNE (CONT'D)
          The truth that as we go deeper into
          Fischer, we're also going deeper
          into you-and I'm not sure we're
          going to like what we find there.

Cobb stares back at Ariadne. Saying nothing.

                    ARIADNE
          This is not just about Fischer,
          it's about you. Tell me what
          happened to you and Mal. Trapped in
          Limbo.

Cobb looks at her. Thinking it through.

                    COBB
          We were on a job. Exploring dreams
          within dreams. But we didn't
          understand how your mind can turn
          hours into years. How you can get
          trapped. Trapped so deep that when
          you wash up on the shore of your
          subconscious...

INSERT CUT: MAL LIES ON THE SAND, STARING UP AT A CLOUDLESS
SKY, WAVES WASHING OVER HER...

                    COBB
          You can lose track of what's real.

                    ARIADNE
          How long were you stuck?

Cobb pauses before he answers. Looks at Ariadne.

                    COBB
          Fifty years.

Ariadne stares at him, incredulous.

                    ARIADNE
          How did you stand it?

INSERT CUT: COBB AND MAL BUILD A SANDCASTLE ON THE BEACH...

                    COBB
          We built. We created a whole world
          for ourselves...

INSERT CUT: COBB AND MAL WALK THROUGH A DESERTED CITY.
                    COBB
          It's not so bad at first, being
          gods. The problem is knowing that
          it's not real. It became impossible
          for me to live like that.
                                                        88.

                    ARIADNE
          But not for her?

                    COBB
          She accepted it. At some point...

INSERT CUT:

INT. MAL'S CHILDHOOD HOME - DAY

Mal opens a DOLL'S HOUSE. Inside is a SAFE. She opens it- it
is empty. She pulls out her SPINNING TOP.

                    COBB (V.O.)
          ...she'd decided to forget that our
          world wasn't real.

Mal places the top inside the safe. LOCKS IT AWAY...
INT. OFFICE, WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

                    ARIADNE
          And when you finally woke up?

                    COBB
          To wake from that. From decades
          lived. To be old souls thrown back
          into youth. It was hard. At first
          Mal seemed okay. But I started to
          realize something was wrong.
          Finally she admitted it. This idea
          she was possessed by. This simple
          little idea that changed
          everything...

                    ARIADNE
          What was it?

                    COBB
          That our world was not real. No
          matter what I did, no matter what I
          said, she was convinced that we
          were still in a dream. That we
          needed to wake up again...

INT. COBB AND MAL'S KITCHEN - DAY (FLASHBACK)

Cobb is trying to calm Mal, who is hysterical.

                     COBB (V.O.)
          That to get home we'd have to kill
          ourselves.

INT. WORKSHOP - DAY

Ariadne looks at Cobb, appalled.
                                                          89.

                    ARIADNE
          What about your children?

Cobb has to look away.

                    COBB
          She... she believed they weren't
          real. That our real children were
          waiting. Somewhere above...

INT. COBB AND MAL'S KITCHEN - DAY (FLASHBACK)

Mal shakes her head at Cobb as he USHERS the children out of
the room, FACES UNSEEN-

                    COBB
          Calm down, Mal-

                    MAL
          They're projections, Dom. Your
          dreams. I'm their mother-don't you
          think I can tell the difference?

Cobb closes the door- turns to her, eyes full of bitter
tears.

                    COBB
          If it's my dream then why can't I
          control it? Why can't I stop this?

                    MAL
              (it's obvious)
          You don't know you're dreaming.

                    COBB
          You keep telling me I am-

                    MAL
          And you don't believe me!

                    COBB (V.O.)
          She was certain. But she loved me
          too much to go without me. So she
          made a plan...

INT. ELEGANT HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

Cobb walks along, checking door numbers against a key.

                    COBB (V.O.)
          For our anniversary...

INT. ELEGANT HOTEL SUITE - CONTINUOUS (FLASHBACK)

Cobb enters the lavish suite. He notices the DISHEVELED
BEDCLOTHES.
                                                          90.

He steps forwards- SMASH- he has tipped over a champagne
glass with his foot... dinner for two is SPREAD ACROSS THE
FLOOR. He looks at the DEBRIS, confused... next to the broken
glass is a SPINNING TOP. He picks it up, studying it,
thinking. He feels a draught, looks to the window. The
CURTAIN BILLOWS.

EXT. EXTERIOR ATRIUM - CONTINUOUS (FLASHBACK)

Cobb looks out the window: Mal sits on the ledge of the
opposite window. HAIR BLOWING. Feet dangling over the
dizzyingly high atrium. She smiles.

                     MAL
          Join me.

                    COBB
          Mal, come back inside.

                    MAL
          No. I'm going to jump. And you're
          coming with me.

                    COBB
          No, I'm not. This is real-if you
          jump, you're not going to wake up,
          you're going to die. Let's go back
          inside and talk about this, please.

                    MAL
          We've talked enough.

She KICKS off a shoe and watches it DROP.

                    MAL
          Come out onto the ledge or I'll
          jump right now.

She means it. Cobb swings his legs out, sitting on the ledge
opposite is wife. He looks down at the drop.

                    MAL
          I'm asking you to take a leap of
          faith.

                    COBB
          I can't do that, Mal. I can't leave
          our children.

                    MAL
          If I go without you, they'll take
          them away, anyway.

                    COBB
          What do you mean?
                                                           91.

                     MAL
          I filed a letter with our attorney.
          Explaining how I'm fearful for my
          safety, how you've threatened to
          kill me...

Cobb looks back at the wrecked hotel suite, PANICKING...

                    MAL (CONT'D)
          I love you, Dom. I've freed you
          from the guilt of choosing to leave
          them. We're going home to our real
          children.

                    COBB
          Out children are here, Mal.

Mal CLOSES HER EYES. Cobb looks for some way to reach her...

                    MAL
          You're waiting for a train...

                    COBB
          NO! MAL, NO, I CAN'T!

                    MAL
          A train that will take you far
          away...

                    COBB
          DON'T DO THIS!

                    MAL
          You know where you hope this train
          will take you, you can't know for
          sure...

                    COBB
          DON'T!

                    MAL
          But it doesn't matter...

                    COBB
          NO!

                    MAL
          Because you'll be together...

Mal SLIPS FORWARD INTO SPACE. Cobb SCREAMS after her. Then
tries to bury his face in the wall...

INT. OFFICE, WAREHOUSE - DAY

Cobb stares as he remembers.
                                                           92.

                    COBB
          He letter to the authorities
          refuted all the claims about her
          sanity that she knew I'd make...

INT. COBB AND MAL'S KITCHEN - DAY (FLASHBACK)

Cobb stands with the Thin Man, who has a piece of paper.

                    COBB (V.O.)
          She'd had herself declared sane by
          three different psychiatrists.

Cobb hears a SHOUT- turns to the garden. James CROUCHES,
Philippa joins him, examining the ground, FACES UNSEEN...

                    COBB (V.O.) (CONT'D)
          It was impossible for me to explain
          the nature of her madness...

The Thin Man thrusts the paper into Cobb's hand.

                    THIN MAN
          Right now. Or never, Cobb.

Cobb turns back to the window- about to call out- James and
Philippa RUN OFF. Cobb turns from the window. Looks at the
paper in his hand. It is an AIRPLANE TICKET.

                    COBB (V.O.)
          So I ran. And I've been running
          ever since, trying to buy my way
          back to my family...

INT. OFFICE, WAREHOUSE - DAY

Cobb looks across at Ariadne.

                    ARIADNE
          Psychiatrists judged her sane?

                    COBB
          She was sane. She was just lost in
          the labyrinth.

                    ARIADNE
          Then why should you blame yourself?

                    COBB
          Because we were a family. And we
          had a life I would do anything to
          get back to now. But that reality
          wasn't enough for me then.
                                                        93.

                    ARIADNE
          It might have been your idea to
          push the limits, Cobb. But you're
          not responsible for the idea that
          destroyed her. The idea that her
          world wasn't real... that was her
          own idea from her own mind.

Cobb says nothing.

                    ARIADNE (CONT'D)
          Your guilt defines her. Powers her.
          If we're going to succeed in this,
          you're going to have to forgive
          yourself, and you're going to have
          to confront her. But you don't have
          to do it alone.

                    COBB
          You don't have to do this for me-

                    ARIADNE
          I'm doing it for the others. They
          don't know the risk they've taken
          coming in here with you.

Cobb looks at the rooftop opposite, sees a SNIPER take up a
position. Cobb shakes his head, frustrated.

                    COBB
          We can't stay here. Arthur?!

INT. BATHROOM, WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Browning puts his hand on Fischer's shoulder.

                    BROWNING
          These people are going to kill us
          if we don't give them the
          combination.

                    FISCHER
          They won't, they'll try to ransom
          us-

                    BROWNING
          I heard them-they're going to lock
          us in and run the can into the
          river.

                    FISCHER
          What is in the safe?
                                                           94.

                    BROWNING
          Something for you. Maurice always
          said it was his most previous
          gift... a will.

                    FISCHER
          Maurice's will is with Port and
          Dunn.

                    BROWNING
          It's an alternate. It supersedes
          the other only if you want it to.

                    FISCHER
          What does it say?

                    BROWNING
          It splits all the component
          businesses of Fischer Morrow into
          individual companies, transferring
          ownership to the boards of those
          companies...

                    FISCHER
          Leaving me nothing?

                    BROWNING
          A basic living. Nothing more. The
          entire empire would cease to exist.

                    FISCHER
          Destroy my own inheritance? Why
          would he suggest such a thing?

                    BROWNING
          I don't know, Robert.

Cobb OPENS the door. Arthur is behind him.

                    COBB
          Come to your senses?

                    FISCHER
          Let us go. I don't know the
          combination. Not consciously.

Cobb considers this. Opens his phone. Pulls out his gun.

                    COBB
          Let's try instinctively. I have
          someone standing in your father's
          office ready to tap in a
          combination.

He holds the phone to Fischer's mouth.
                                                           95.

                    COBB (CONT'D)
          First six numbers that come into
          your head. Right now.

                    FISCHER
          I have no idea-

Cobb SWINGS the gun onto Browning-

                       COBB
          RIGHT NOW!

                    FISCHER
          Five, two, eight... four, nine,
          one.

Cobb lowers his weapon. Listens to the phone. Shakes his
head. Shuts the phone.

                    COBB
          You'll have to do better. Bag `em.

Arthur puts SACKS over their heads.

INT. WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Cobb and Arthur drag Fischer and Browning to the van-

                    FISCHER
          We're worth much more to you
          alive...

Arthur places Fischer on the back seat- uses a DROPPER to
drop LIQUID onto Fischer's mask- his head SLUMPS FORWARDS.
"Browning" yanks the sack from his head- it is now EAMES.

                    EAMES
              (excited)
          His relationship with his father's
          much worse that we thought.

                    ARTHUR
          That helps us?

Arthur pulls a SNIPER RIFLE from a case by the van.

                    COBB
          The stronger the issues, the more
          powerful the catharsis.

Cobb motions for Yusuf to follow his upstairs.

                    ARTHUR
          But how do you reconcile them if
          they're that estranged?
                                                           96.

                    EAMES
          I'm working on that.

Arthur lines up a shot through the window-

                    ARTHUR
          Well, work fast-Fischer's
          projections are closing in quick,
          we need to break out of here before
          we're totally boxed in...

Arthur SHOOTS two snipers. Cobb and Yusuf gently load Saito
into the van. He groans. Ariadne straps him in, checks his
bandages. Arthur can't get the last sniper- he's too hidden
behind a wall-

                    EAMES
          Shouldn't be afraid to dream a
          little bigger, Arthur-

Eames lines up a shot with a grenade launcher. Fires- the
sniper EXPLODES into the air- Arthur looks at Eames.

                      EAMES (CONT'D)
          Shall we?

They climb into the van-

INT./EXT. VAN ON RAINY STREETS - CONTINUOUS

The van pulls out into the rain-drenched streets. Arthur
opens the mechanism case and hands out tubes-

                    COBB
          Shifting Fischer's antipathy from
          his father onto Browning should
          work.

                    EAMES
          We need the imagery, the words...

                    ARIADNE
          So you destroy his one positive
          relationship?

                    COBB
          No. We repair his relationship with
          his father and expose his
          godfather's true nature.

                    EAMES
          Hell, we should be charging Fischer
          as much as Saito.
                                                        97.

                    ARTHUR
          What about his security? It's going
          to get worse as we go deeper.

                    COBB
          We bring in Mr. Charles.

                       ARTHUR
          No.

                    EAMES
          Who's Mr. Charles?

                    ARTHUR
          A bad idea.

                    COBB
          Arthur, the second we approach
          Fischer in that hotel, they're
          gonna mow us down-we run with Mr.
          Charles like on the Stein job.

                    EAMES
          So you've done it before?

                    ARTHUR
          Sure. But it didn't work. The
          subject realized he was dreaming
          and his subconscious tore us to
          pieces.

Eames takes this in.

                    EAMES
          You learned a lot, though. Right?

                    COBB
              (to Eames)
          I'll need a decoy.

                    EAMES
          No problem. How about a pretty
          young lady I've used before?

                       COBB
          Fine-

Cobb looks back: a second S.U.V. pulls out, tailing them.

                    COBB (CONT'D)
              (to Yusuf)
          I know you've got to stay ahead of
          them, but drive with kid gloves,
          okay? The world down there is going
          to be very unstable-
                                                        98.

                    ARTHUR
          And don't make the jump too soon-
          that kick is our only way back, we
          have to be ready to catch it-

                     YUSUF
          I'll use the music to let you know
          when it's coming, but the rest is
          up to you.

Arthur puts the mechanism onto the front seat.

                    YUSUF (CONT'D)
          Everyone ready?

Nods all round.

                    YUSUF (CONT'D)
          Sweet dreams-

Yusuf hits a button and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL LOBBY BAR - SUNSET

Fischer nurses a drink. Staring at the ice cracking.

                    BLONDE (O.S.)
          Am I boring you?

Fischer looks up. A beautiful BLONDE is next to him.

                    BLONDE (CONT'D)
          I was telling you my story. I guess
          it wasn't to your liking.

                    FISCHER
          I have a lot on my mind.

Fischer looks around the bar. There are several STERN-LOOKING
CHARACTERS paying him too much attention.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

Arthur and Ariadne sit at a table across the lobby. They spot
Cobb moving across the lobby towards Fischer.

                    ARTHUR
          And there goes Mr. Charles.

                    ARIADNE
          Who or what, exactly, is Mr.
          Charles?
                                                        99.

                    ARTHUR
          It's a gambit designed to turn
          Fischer against his own
          subconscious.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY BAR - CONTINUOUS

Cobb approaches the bar, watched closely by Fischer's Sub-
security.

                    COBB
          Mr. Fishcer! Good to see you again.
          Rod Green, Marketing.
              (to Blonde)
          And you must be...

                     BLONDE
          Leaving.

She presses against Fischer as she slides off her stool and
deposits a cocktail napkin in front of him.

                    BLONDE (CONT'D)
          In case you get bored.

Cobb watches her walk away. The Sub-security FOLLOWS her.

                    COBB
          I think you just got blown off...
          unless her phone number really does
          have only six digits.

Fischer glances at the napkin: "528-491."

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

Arthur watches the Sub-security follow the Blonde.

                    ARIADNE
          And why don't you approve?

                    ARTHUR
          Because it involves telling the
          mark that he's dreaming. Which
          involves attracting a lot of
          attention to us.

                    ARIADNE
          Didn't Cobb say never to do that?

                    ARTHUR
          You must've noticed by now how much
          time Cobb spends doing things he
          says never to do.
                                                       100.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY BAR - CONTINUOUS

Cobb turns to Fischer.

                    COBB
          Strange way to make friends.
              (off look)
          Lifting your wallet, I mean.

Fischer pats his pocket. Empty. He looks to the lobby where
he sees the Sub-security trailing the Blonde.

                    FISCHER
          Goddamn it. The wallet alone's
          worth-

                    COBB
          Five hundred bucks. I know. Don't
          worry, my guys are on it.

                    FISCHER
          Who did you say you were?

Fischer looks at him, curious. Cobb plows on, confident-

                    COBB
          I said I was Rod Green from
          Marketing-but I'm not. My name is
          Mr. Charles. I might seem familiar
          to you. I'm in charge of your
          security here.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

The Blonde hurries up to Saito, emerging from the elevator-

                    BLONDE
          Mr. Saito, can I have a minute?

She pushes him back into the elevator, closing the door as
the Sub-security approaches...

INT. ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

The Blonde fondles Saito's lapels, getting close.

                    SAITO
          I'm sorry, but...

Saito glances over her shoulder to see, in the tunnel of
infinite reflections created by the elevator's opposing
mirrors, three reflections in, THE BLONDE IS EAMES. He winks.

                    SAITO (CONT'D)
              (pushing him away)
          Very amusing, Mr. Eames.
                                                       101.

                    EAMES
          You look a bit perkier.

A SHUDDER ripples through the elevator.

                    SAITO
          Turbulence on the plane.

                    EAMES
          Feels closer. That's Yusuf's
          driving.

And we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT./EXT. VAN ON RAINY DOWNTOWN STREETS - DAY

Yusuf FIGHTS the wheel as the van CUTS DOWN AN ALLEY, BUMPING
OVER POTHOLES and SMASHING TRASH CANS aside- THREE S.U.V.s IN
FURIOUS PURSUIT. Yusuf looks in the rear view mirror,
FRUSTRATED. He checks his WATCH, then checks the back: the
SLEEPERS SHAKE with the impact and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL LOBBY BAR - NIGHT

As a TREMOR echoes through the bar Fischer looks at Cobb
trying to place him.

                    FISCHER
          Security? You work for the hotel?

                    COBB
          No. My specialty is subconscious
          security.

                    FISCHER
          You're talking about dreams. You're
          talking about extraction.

                    COBB
          Exactly. My job is to protect
          you...

Behind Fischer a WAITER puts down a tray- tipping a champagne
glass over- SMASH- Cobb NOTICES. Pauses, looks across the bar-
HIS TWO CHILDREN ARE CROUCHED, BACKS TOWARDS US...

Cobb looks around the bar, the patrons start to STARE at
Cobb, suspicious- Cobb shifts back to Fischer-
                                                          102.

                    COBB (CONT'D)
          My job is to protect you from any
          attempt to access your mind through
          your dreams.

Cobb regains his patter- the patrons lose interest...

INT. ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

Eames pulls out Fischer's wallet, moves to hand it to Saito,
then PAUSES, opens it, leafs past the cast to find... The
SNAPSHOT: young Robert holding his HOMEMADE PINWHEEL, his
father blowing on it. The elevator doors open and Eames steps
off. HANDS Saito the wallet.

                    EAMES
          Get off at a different floor and
          keep moving. Dump the wallet, then
          meet me in the lobby. The security
          will try to track it down. We need
          to buy Cobb a little more time.

The doors close. Saito puts the wallet in his pocket. He
COUGHS- a deep, nasty cough.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY BAR - CONTINUOUS

Cobb looks over Fischer's shoulder to see a SUITED MAN
watching him. Another MAN is walking in from the lobby.

                    COBB
          You're not safe here.

Cobb steps away from the bar. Fischer does not move.

                    COBB (CONT'D)
          Trust me. They're coming for you.

Fischer sizes him up, A CLAP OF THUNDER ECHOES, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT./EXT. VAN ON RAINY DOWNTOWN STREETS - DAY

GUNSHOTS BLAST out the rear and side windows of the van- a
Security Man is leaning out of the lead S.U.V. With a SHOTGUN-

WIND AND RAIN RIP THROUGH THE VAN- in the back, ARTHUR'S
SLEEPING FACE IS WHIPPED BY THE SPRAY, AND WE-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL LOBBY BAR - SUNSET

Fischer looks out the windows at sudden, HURRICANE-LIKE RAIN-
                                                         103.

                    COBB
          Strange weather, huh?

A TREMOR runs through the bar- Cobb looks around-

                    COBB (CONT'D)
          You feel that?

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

Ariadne and Arthur watch the GUSTS OF WIND RATTLE the
windows. Arthur sees HOTEL GUESTS staring out at the weather,
PUZZLED. Several of them TURN TO LOOK DIRECTLY AT ARTHUR.

                    ARIADNE
          What's happening?

                    ARTHUR
          Cobb's drawing Fischer's attention
          to the strangeness of the dream.
          That's making his subconscious look
          for the dreamer. For me.

And we-

                                                    CUT TO:

INT./EXT. VAN ON RAINY STREETS - DAY

At the end of the alley-   Yusuf THROWS the van into a HARD
RIGHT TURN- we move into   EXTREME SLOW MOTION... THE SLEEPERS
IN THE BACK ARE DRAWN TO   ONE SIDE OF THE VAN BY THE
CENTRIFUGAL FORCE... and   we-

                                                    CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL LOBBY BAR - CONTINUOUS

The liquid in Fischer's drink RISES UP AGAINST ONE SIDE OF
THE GLASS- Fischer notices, confused.

                     COBB
          Very odd-the weather, the
          gravity...

Fischer looks around the bar- it's as if THE ENTIRE ROOM IS
SET AT A 45-DEGREE ANGLE- glasses SLIDING off tables...

                    COBB (CONT'D)
          But I can explain all this. You've
          actually been trained for this.
              (Fischer nods)
          Think of the strangeness of the
          weather, the shifts in gravity.
          None of this is real...
                    (MORE)
                                                         104.
                    COBB (CONT'D)
              (beat)
          We're in a dream.

Fischer looks at the room around them. Back to Cobb. All
through the bar, patrons turn to look at Cobb IN UNISON.

                    COBB (CONT'D)
          The simplest test of what I'm
          saying is for you to try and
          remember anything about the way you
          arrived in this hotel... okay?

Fischer stares at Cobb, trying to process this. All around
them, people STARE at Cobb. Several get up as if to approach.

                    COBB (CONT'D)
          Breathe. Remember the training.
          Accept the fact that we're in a
          dream. That's why I'm here
          protecting you.

As Fischer considers this we-

                                                    CUT TO:

INT./EXT. VAN ON RAINY STREETS - DAY

Yusuf STRAIGHTENS UP the van, RACING down the street,
swerving through traffic and we-

                                                    CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL LOBBY BAR - EVENING

The building gradually EASES BACK INTO ALIGNMENT-

                    FISCHER
          So you... you're not real?

The bar patrons start to ignore Cobb again.

                    COBB
          No. I'm a projection of your
          subconscious. I was put in place to
          protect you in the event that
          extractors pulled you into a dream.
          I believe that's what has happened.

Fischer takes this in. Then looks at the Security Men
approaching across the crooked floor, he nods at Cobb-
                                                          105.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - EVENING

Cobb escorts Fischer across the lobby. As he does so, he
walks past the two CHILDREN, backs to us- Cobb ignores them-
The two Sub-security fall in behind. Cobb hurries Fischer up
the stairs- then PUSHES him into-

INT. HOTEL LOBBY BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Fischer stumbles in- turns to Cobb, angry-

                    FISCHER
          Hey-

Cobb reaches into his jacket- the First Man BURSTS in- Cobb
KICKS him to the ground- DRAWS his gun as the SECOND MAN
comes through the door, moving towards Fischer-

BLAM! Cobb BLASTS the Second Man in the back- TURNS and
SHOOTS the First Man.

                    FISCHER (CONT'D)
          Jesus Christ! What are you doing?!

Cobb turns to Fischer, calm. Convincing.

                    COBB
          Look at the gun in his hand.

Fischer looks: the Second Man was holding a pistol. Cobb
opens the First Man's jacket to show Fischer his holster and
sidearm.

                    COBB (CONT'D)
          These men were sent to abduct you.

Cobb pulls out the gun and HANDS it to Fischer.

                    COBB (CONT'D)
          If I'm going to help you, I need
          you to be calm.

Fischer remembers something.

                    FISCHER
          If this is a dream, I have to kill
          myself and wake up-

Fischer raises the gun towards his head-

                    COBB
          I wouldn't do that-they've probably
          got you sedated. If you pull that
          trigger, you might not wake up, you
          might drop into a lower dream
          state.
                    (MORE)
                                                       106.
                    COBB (CONT'D)
          Mr. Fischer, you know all this, you
          just have to remember it...

Fischer lowers his gun.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

Saito walks down the corridor, followed by a Security Man.
Saito DUCKS around the corner, moves to a GARBAGE CHUTE and
DROPS Fischer's WALLET into it. He SLIPS into the stairwell
as the Security Man comes abreast of the chute and pauses.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

Arthur leads Ariadne to a particular room: 491.

INT. ROOM 491 - CONTINUOUS

Arthur leads Ariadne in. He opens the closet, opens the room
safe, pulls our FOUR BRICKS OF PLASTIC EXPLOSIVE.

                    ARTHUR
          So, if everything's correct, this
          room should be directly below 528.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Cobb looks reassuringly at Fischer.

                    COBB
          What do you remember from before
          this dream?

                    FISCHER
              (thinking)
          Rain... gunfire... Uncle Peter.
              (looks up)
          Christ-we've been kidnapped.

                    COBB
          Where were they holding you?

                    FISCHER
          They had us... in the back of a
          van...

                    COBB
          Your body's bouncing around in the
          back of a van right now-that
          explains the gravity shifts.

                    FISCHER
          It was... to do with a safe...
          Christ, why's it so hard to
          remember?
                                                        107.

                    COBB
          It's like trying to remember a
          dream after you've woken up. It
          takes years of practice to do it
          easily. So, you and Browning have
          been pulled into this dream so they
          can steal something from your mind.
          What?

                    FISCHER
          They wanted a combination to a
          safe... they demanded the first
          numbers to pop into my head.

                    COBB
          That's them extracting a locator.

                       FISCHER
          A locator?

                    COBB
          A number from your own
          subconscious. It can be used any
          number of ways...
              (thinking)
          This is a hotel. Room numbers. What
          was the number you gave them?

                    FISCHER
          5, 2... something... it was a long
          number. 528... 528, 4 something.

                    COBB
              (opens phone)
          Well, we know where to start.
              (into phone)
          Fifth floor.

INT. ROOM 491 - CONTINUOUS

Arthur hangs up the phone. He is standing on a chair,
attaching the explosives to the ceiling.

                    ARIADNE
          Do you use a timer?

                    ARTHUR
          No, I have to judge it myself. Once
          you're all asleep up in room 528, I
          wait `til Yusuf starts his kick...

                    ARIADNE
          How will you know?
                                                        108.

                    ARTHUR
          His music warns me it's coming,
          then the van hitting the barrier of
          the bridge should be unmistakable-
          that's when I blow the floor out
          from underneath us and we get a
          nice synchronized kick. Too soon,
          and we won't get pulled out; too
          late and I won't be able to drop
          us.

                       ARIADNE
          Why not?

                    ARTHUR
          The van will be in free fall. I
          can't drop us with no gravity.

Arthur finishes setting the charges.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

Saito moves through the lobby. Browning is coming in the
other direction. Saito assumes him to be Eames.

                    SAITO
          I see you've changed.

                       BROWNING
          I'm sorry?

Eames comes up behind Browning, catching Saito's eye.

                    SAITO
          I'm... I mistook you for a friend.

                    BROWNING
          Good-looking fellow, I'm sure.

Browning moves off. Saito approaches Eames.

                    EAMES
          That's Fischer's projection of
          Browning. We'll keep an eye on how
          he behaves-

                       SAITO
          Why?

                    EAMES
          How he acts will tell us if
          Fischer's starting to suspect his
          motives the way we want him to.
                                                       109.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR, FIFTH FLOOR - MOMENTS LATER

Cobb leads Fischer around a corner. Arthur and Ariadne are
waiting in the corridor.

                    COBB
          They work for me.

Fischer starts looking at room numbers. Stops at 528. Cobb
draws his gun, steps back from the door and KICKS it open.

INT. ROOM 528 - CONTINUOUS

Cobb JUMPS into the room, gun up. The room is empty. Arthur
and Ariadne search the room. Saito and Eames arrive. Eames
shuts the door. Arthur FINDS something-

                    ARTHUR
          Mr. Charles!

Arthur holds up a MECHANISM CASE. Cobb shows it to Fischer.

                    COBB
          You know what this is?

Fischer's eyes roam over the dials and plungers.

                    FISCHER
          I think so. But I don't understand.

                    COBB
          They were going to put you under.

                    FISCHER
          I'm already under.

                    COBB
          Under again.

                    FISCHER
          A dream within a dream?

                    ARTHUR
          Shhhh!

Arthur is at the door. Someone is there. A key goes into the
lock- the door starts to open- Arthur REACHES OVER and GRABS
the person entering, THROWS THEM TO THE FLOOR- puts his gun
in their face. IT IS BROWNING.

Fischer stares, disbelieving, at his own godfather.

                    FISCHER
          Uncle Peter. What's going on?

Cobb pulls the key from Browning's hand: ROOM 528.
                                                        110.

                    COBB
          You said you were kidnapped
          together?

                    FISCHER
          Not exactly, they already had him.
          They'd been torturing him...

                    COBB
          You saw them torture him?

Fischer shakes his head. Looks at Browning. Thinking.

                    FISCHER
          The kidnappers are working for you.

                    BROWNING
          No, Robert-

                    FISCHER
          You're trying to get that safe
          open. To get the alternate will.

Browning looks up at Fischer.

                    BROWNING
          Fischer Morrow's been my entire
          life. I can't let you destroy it.

                    FISCHER
          I'm not going to throw away my
          inheritance. Why would I?

                    BROWNING
          I couldn't take the chance of you
          rising to your father's final
          taunt.

                    FISCHER
          What taunt?

                    BROWNING
          That will. I'm sorry, Robert, but
          it's his final insult. A challenge
          to build something for yourself.
          He's telling you that you aren't
          worthy of his achievements.

Fischer takes this in. Devastated.

                    FISCHER
          That he was "disappointed?"
                                                       111.

                    BROWNING
          I'm so sorry. But he was wrong.
          You'll make his company even
          greater than he ever could.

                    COBB
          Your godfather's lying, Robert.

Fischer turns to Cobb.

                    FISCHER
          How do you know?

                     COBB
          It's what I do. He's hiding
          something.

Cobb looks at Browning.

                    COBB
          Let's find out what.

Cobb nods at Arthur, who starts unpacking the mechanism.
Browning watches. Silent.

                    COBB
          Let's do to him what he was going
          to do to you.

Cobb rolls up his sleeve. Nods at Fischer to do the same.

                    COBB
          We'll penetrate his subconscious
          and find out what he doesn't want
          you to know.

Fischer looks Cobb in the eye. Decides- rolls up his sleeve,
offering his bare arm. The team run tubes to each other-
Arthur injects Fischer, whose head slumps.

                      ARTHUR
          He's out.

                    ARIADNE
          Wait, Cobb-I'm lost. Whose
          subconscious are we going into?

                    COBB
          Fischer's. I told him it was
          Browning's so he'd come with us as
          part of our team.

                    ARTHUR
              (impressed)
          He's going to help us break into
          his own subconscious.
                                                       112.

                    COBB
          That's the idea. He'll think that
          his security is Browning's and
          fight them to learn the truth about
          his father.

Arthur hits buttons on the mechanism. The team goes out one
by one. Cobb is last.

                    COBB
          Fischer's subconscious is going to
          run you down hard.

                    ARTHUR
          I'll lead them on a merry chase.

                    COBB
          Be back in time for the kick.

                       ARTHUR
          I'm on it.

Cobb is no longer listening- he stares at the net curtains,
BILLOWING like those in Mal's suite- a GLIMPSE of someone
(Mal?) As the screen goes WHITE, and we are-

EXT. SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - DAY

CLOSE ON Cobb's face, staring. Fixed.

                    ARIADNE (O.S.)
          Cobb? Cobb?

Ariadne is beside him. They stand on a cliff, dressed in
white snowsuits, carrying white-painted weapons like WWII
commandos. Cobb checks his SNIPER RIFLE, examines their
objective: a massive FORTIFIED MEDICAL FACILITY a mile below.

                    ARIADNE
          What's down there?

                    COBB
          Hopefully, the truth we want
          Fischer to learn.

                    ARIADNE
          I meant what's down there for you?

Cobb turns to her. Eames, Saito and Fischer arrive, SKIING
down from the hill above. Cobb pulls Eames out of Fischer's
earshot.

                    COBB
          You're the dreamer. I need you to
          draw the security away from the
          complex.
                                                       113.

                    EAMES
          Then who guides Fischer in? You?

                    COBB
          If I know the route... we could be
          compromised.

Eames looks as Cobb, uneasy. Ariadne comes over.

                    ARIADNE
          I designed the place.

                    COBB
          No. You're with me.

                    SAITO (O.S.)
          I could do it.

They turn to Saito. Saito shrugs at Eames. Eames smiles.

                    COBB
          Eames, brief Saito on the route
          into the complex. What we're
          looking for is going to be in the
          most heavily fortified section.
          That north tower.

Cobb moves to Fischer. Saito COUGHS. SPITS. Eames sees BLOOD
on the snow. Looks at Saito.

                     COBB
          Mr. Fischer, you're going in with
          Mr. Saito.

                    FISCHER
          You're not coming in?

                    COBB
          You have to do this on your own.
          You have to get in there, break
          into your godfather's mind and find
          out the truth about your father.

Cobb taps Fischer's radio mike.

                    COBB
          Keep this live at all times. I'll
          be listening in, covering you.
              (holds up the sniper
               rifle)
          The windows on the upper floors are
          big enough that I can cover you
          from that south tower.
                                                       114.

Cobb slips into his skis, shoulders his rifle.

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. ROOM 528 - NIGHT

Arthur checks the mechanism. He hears LOW BOOMS like thunder.
He checks his watch- THE SECOND HAND CRAWLS FORWARDS. With a
last look at the sleepers, he heads out into the corridor...

INT./EXT. VAN ON RAINY DOWNTOWN STREETS - DAY

A GUNSHOT slams into the van as Yusuf DRIVES- he glances back
to see a MOTORCYCLE pulling up behind him, the REAR PASSENGER
FIRING A SHOTGUN- the bike pulls alongside Yusuf's window as
the passenger RELOADS- Yusuf YANKS the wheel TOWARDS the
bike, bringing the shotgun barrel into the cab so he can GRAB
it, spin the wheel back- PULLING the passenger from the back
of the bike... Yusuf turns a corner, heading into a disused
MARKET-

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

Arthur walks towards the elevator. It OPENS- a SECURITY MAN
emerges, heading right for him. Arthur takes a TURN, speeding
up. The BOOMS are louder, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT./EXT. VAN ON RAINY DOWNTOWN STREETS - DAY

The bike crosses behind the van, catching up again as the
driver pulls a handgun and starts BLASTING. Up ahead, an
S.U.V. sits in a side road, lining up to head off the van-
the SECURITY MAN driving the S.U.V. guns it, as the bike
creeps up on the other side of the van- Yusuf HITS THE
BRAKES, forcing the bike out into the path of the S.U.V.,
tossing the rider like a rag doll-

Heading out of the market, the van races onto a FREEWAY ON
RAMP, approaching the BRIDGE. An S.U.V. SMASHES into the
van's side, FORCING it up against a CRASH BARRIER... the van
starts to SLOWLY TILT OVER THE BARRIER as the S.U.V. PUSHES-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

As Arthur hurries down the corridor, the corridor starts to
TILT, and Arthur is forced to run UP ONTO THE WALL- he rounds
a corner- STRAIGHT INTO another Security Man- Arthur HEAD
BUTTS him and they STRUGGLE- as they struggle, the corridor
SPINS around, THROWING THEM UP ONTO THE WALLS, THE CEILING-
as wall becomes floor they DROP through a door into-
                                                          115.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The fight continues all over the spinning room- and we-

                                                    CUT TO:

INT./EXT. VAN ON RAINY OFF RAMP NEAR BRIDGE - DAY

SLEEPING ARTHUR BOUNCES around as the van TILTS, SCRAPING
along the barrier- the van CLEARS THE END OF THE BARRIER AND
ROLLS DOWN THE EMBANKMENT, and we-

                                                    CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Arthur and the Security Man DROP to the floor, Arthur on top.
Arthur gets up- heads to the stairwell.

INT./EXT. VAN ON RAINY STREETS NEAR BRIDGE - DAY

The van SETTLES with a thump. Yusuf BREATHES hard. Then
SMILES as he realizes he is in one piece. A RINGING BELL up
ahead makes him look up to the bridge, where the barriers are
starting to come down. Yusuf checks his watch-

                    YUSUF
          Bugger.

Yusuf hits the gas, heading for the bridge. An S.U.V. lines
up behind him, trying to catch up before the van crosses the
barrier onto the bridge-

The van JUST MAKES IT- the S.U.V. behind RIPS its read axle
off, SCRAPING to a halt on the rising section. The Security
Man inside starts FIRING on the van...

INT. HOTEL STAIRWELL - CONTINUOUS

Arthur RACES down the steps- OPENS the door to the fourth
floor- spots SECURITY MEN outside room 491.

                    ARTHUR
          Hey!

They TURN- he DARTS back into the stairwell- RACES down the
stairs- the Security Men follow- they start SHOOTING, and we-

                                                    CUT TO:

EXT. SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - DAY

Eames SKIS down within sight of the hospital complex. He
reaches into his pack and lets off a FLARE.
                                                       116.

EXT. HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Security Men on the ramparts spot the flare and send PATROLS
out on skis and SNOWMOBILES to investigate.

EXT. SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - CONTINUOUS

Eames watches them close in, then launches himself down the
mountain, STREAKING across the icy slope, and we-

                                                   CUT TO:

INT./EXT. VAN ON RAINY RISING BRIDGE - DAY

Yusuf PULLS FORWARD, looking over his shoulder to line up a
BACKWARDS RUN at the edge. He DUCKS as vicious FIRE from the
S.U.V. HAMMERS the vehicle. He looks at his watch. The SECOND
HAND TICKING SLOWLY...

                    YUSUF
          Sod it. I hope your ready.

He grabs an MP3 player and reaches into the back to place
HEADPHONES on sleeping Arthur's head. As he does so, he
notices Saito's bandage BLEEDING THROUGH. Yusuf hits PLAY-
Edith Piaf's "Non, je ne regrette rien" starts up and we-

                                                   CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL STAIRWELL - NIGHT

Arthur STOPS, hearing something- MASSIVE LOW-END MUSICAL
TONES- he looks up PANICKED-

                    ARTHUR
          No, Yusuf. Too soon!

SHOTS slam into the stairs around him and we-

                                                   CUT TO:

EXT. SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - DAY

Cobb and Ariadne make their way down towards the complex.

                    EAMES (OVER RADIO)
          Cobb? Are you hearing that?

Cobb listens. The wind sounds unusually LOW.

EXT. FOREST, SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - CONTINUOUS

Eames is hidden at the base of some trees, whispering as a
patrol passes beneath his position.
                                                        117.

                    EAMES
          I noticed it twenty minutes ago-at
          first I thought it was just wind...

EXT. SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - CONTINUOUS

Cobb is listening intently. The "wind" changes pitch.

                    COBB
          No, it's music. Dammit.

                    EAMES (OVER RADIO)
          What do we do?

                    COBB
          We move fast. Saito, did you copy?

EXT. MOUNTAINS, THE OTHER SIDE OF THE COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Saito and Fischer CLIMB down a CLIFF FACE above the complex-

                    SAITO
          We're going as fast as we can.

EXT. SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - CONTINUOUS

Ariadne looks at Cobb, concerned.

                    ARIADNE
          How long do we have?

                    COBB
          Yusuf's about ten seconds from the
          jump, which gives Arthur about
          three minutes, which gives us about-

                    ARIADNE
          Sixty minutes.

                    COBB
          The route you gave them, can they
          do it in under an hour?

                    ARIADNE
          I don't think so. They've still got
          to climb down to the middle
          terrace.

                    COBB
          They need a new route-a direct
          route.

                     ARIADNE
          The building's designed as a
          labyrinth.
                                                       118.

                    COBB
          There must be access routes that
          cut through the maze.
              (into radio)
          Eames?

EXT. FOREST, SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - CONTINUOUS

Eames cannot answer- he SLALOMS through the forest, Sub-
security in hot pursuit, bullets smashing into the trunks...

EXT. SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - CONTINUOUS

Cobb turns to Ariadne.

                    COBB
          Did Eames add any features?

                    ARIADNE
          Yes.

                    COBB
          What did he add?

Ariadne looks at Cobb.

                    ARIADNE
          I shouldn't tell you. If Mal-

                    COBB
          There's no time-what did he add?

                    ARIADNE
          Utility closets, trap doors...

                    COBB
          What about service features? Did he
          add any large pipes or-

                    ARIADNE
          Ducts. He added an air duct system-
          it doesn't follow the maze. They
          can use it to go straight from the
          outer walls to the upper tower.

                    COBB
          Explain it to them.

                    ARIADNE
              (into radio)
          Saito?

EXT. CLIFF FACE BEHIND COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Saito is using a hammer to tap in a belay.
                                                       119.

                      SAITO
          Go ahead.

And we-

                                                   CUT TO:

INT./EXT. VAN ON RAINY RAISED BRIDGE - DAY

Yusuf looks at the Security Man in the S.U.V., gives him the
finger and hits the GAS- RACING BACKWARDS at the barrier...
and we-

                                                   CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL STAIRWAY - NIGHT

Arthur RUNS UP the stairs, gun in hand- rounds a corner and-
IMPOSSIBLY- arrives behind the Security Man, who looks at
him, CONFUSED, then looks down to realize he is now at the
edge of a dangerous drop- Arthur shrugs.

                      ARTHUR
          Paradox.

Arthur PUSHES him over the edge- he falls- Arthur races up to
the fourth floor- throws open the door- and we-

                                                   CUT TO:

INT./EXT. VAN ON RAINY RAISED BRIDGE - DAY

In SLOW MOTION- the van SMASHES THROUGH THE CONCRETE BARRIER-
and we-

                                                   CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Arthur is SPRINTING down the corridor when a TREMENDOUS CRASH
sends him FLYING into the air- and we-

                                                   CUT TO:

EXT. SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - DAY

A MASSIVE RUMBLE prompts Cobb to look across the valley-

EXT. FOREST, SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - CONTINUOUS

Eames shoots out of the trees, then FALLS to the snow as he
sees a great CRACKING up ahead- the SLOPE IS FALLING AWAY IN
AN AVALANCHE-
                                                       120.

EXT. CLIFF FACE BEHIND COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Saito hears the RUMBLE above them. He looks down, Fischer is
below, near the bottom of the sheer face-

                      SAITO
          Look out!

Saito CUTS the rope- they FALL- HIT the icy face and SLIDE
down the slope, clearing the path of the avalanche- and we-

                                                   CUT TO:

INT./EXT. VAN - DAY

In EXTREME SLOW MOTION, the van emerges from the concrete
balustrade and starts FALLING- and we-

                                                   CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Arthur is still FLYING through the corridor, NOT LANDING-
GRAVITY HAS DISAPPEARED... he scrambles for a handhold,
GRABBING a sconce- and we-

                                                   CUT TO:

EXT. SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - DAY

Cobb watches the avalanche cloud slide past the complex.

                    ARIADNE
          What was that?

                      COBB
          The kick.

                    EAMES (OVER RADIO)
          Cobb? Did we miss it?

                    COBB
          Yeah, we missed it.

EXT. FOREST, SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - CONTINUOUS

Eames is lying on the snow.

                    EAMES
          What the hell do we do now?

                    COBB (OVER RADIO)
          Finish the job before the next
          kick.
                                                         121.

                    EAMES
          What next kick?

EXT. SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - CONTINUOUS

Cobb looks at Ariadne as he talks into the radio.

                    COBB
          When the van hits the water. I
          figure Arthur's got a couple
          minutes and we've got about twenty.

Cobb and Ariadne MOVE towards the base of the complex.

EXT. HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Saito and Fischer RUN around the base of the building. They
find a large EXHAUST PORT. Lay a charge on the GRILL. They
blow the charge. Climb into the open vent.

INT./EXT. VAN - DAY

In EXTREME SLOW MOTION, the van seems SUSPENDED IN MID-AIR
TEN STORIES ABOVE THE RIVER... and we-

                                                    CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

In ZERO GRAVITY, Arthur pulls himself to the door of 491,
opens it. He looks at the charges planted on the ceiling.

                    ARTHUR
          How the hell do I drop you?

He PULLS the charges from the ceiling. Hurrying. And we-

                                                    CUT TO:

INT. DUCT SYSTEM, HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Saito and Fischer hurry through the duct system. Saito is
falling behind, coughing up blood.

EXT. UPPER TERRACE, HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Cobb GRABS a Security Guard from behind, strangling him
unconscious. He beckons to Ariadne, covering her as she runs
towards him. They enter the base of the south tower.

INT. TOP ROOM, SOUTH TOWER, HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

A guard is manning the tower. Cobb and Ariadne enter- Cobb
SHOOTS the guard and moves to the window.
                                                       122.

                    ARIADNE
              (she points)
          That's the antechamber outside the
          strongroom.

Cobb looks at the large windows of the antechamber.

                    COBB
          What about the strongroom? Doesn't
          it have any windows?

                    ARIADNE
          Wouldn't be very strong if it did.
              (off look)
          Look, if you wanted to design it
          yourself-

                    COBB
          It's fine. Better hope that we like
          what Fischer finds in there.

Cobb sets up his sniper rifle. Through the scope he can see
three guards on the balcony outside the chamber. Three more
inside. Cobb casually picks them off with his rifle. Ariadne
watches through binoculars, appalled.

                    ARIADNE
          These projections, they're part of
          his subconscious?

                    COBB
          Yeah.

                    ARIADNE
          Are you destroying those parts of
          his mind?

                    COBB
          No, of course not. They're just
          projections.

                    EAMES (OVER RADIO)
          Cobb? Something's wrong?

EXT. FOREST, SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - CONTINUOUS

Eames is watching the patrols HEAD BACK towards the complex.

                    EAMES
          They're heading your way. Like they
          know something.

INT. TOP ROOM, SOUTH TOWER, HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Cobb hears this. Concerned.
                                                         123.

                    COBB
          Buy us some time.

                       EAMES (OVER RADIO)
          On my way.

EXT. FOREST, SNOW-COVERED MOUNTAINS - CONTINUOUS

Eames TAKES OFF towards the base of the complex. And we=

                                                   CUT TO:

INT. ROOM 528 - NIGHT

Arthur FLOATS into the room. The SLEEPERS are floating,
loosely connected by their tubes. Arthur looks at them, MIND
RACING. He PULLS Cobb towards Eames, and we-

                                                   CUT TO:

INT. DUCT SYSTEM, HOSPITAL COMPLEX - DAY

Saito and Fischer approach the grate covering the exit to the
anteroom. Saito SLUMPS to the floor of the duct, pulls out
his radio. Fischer looks at him- he is PALE, SHIVERING.
Fischer takes the radio, WHISPERS into it.

                    FISCHER
              (into radio)
          We're here. Are we clear to
          proceed?

INT. TOP ROOM, SOUTH TOWER, HOSPITAL COMPLEC - CONTINUOUS

Cobb SCANS the anteroom through the scope-it looks clear.

                    COBB
          You're clear, but hurry-there's an
          army headed your way...

Ariadne watches the patrols approaching the complex...

INT. DUCT SYSTEM, HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

The SQUELCH from the radio is too loud- Fischer GRABS it and
turns the volume to zero as he starts to remove the grate...

EXT. BASE OF THE HOPISTAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Eames is setting MINES along the LOWEST WALL of the
structure. He moves carefully-there is a SHEER DROP below the
wall...
                                                       124.

INT. TOP ROOM, SOUTH TOWER, HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Cobb SPOTS something through his scope. Something above the
main windows, glimpsed through the side of the skylight.

                    COBB
          Shit. There's someone else in
          there.

Cobb prepares to fire. Ariadne GRABS the radio-

                    ARIADNE
          Fischer, stop! It's a trap!-

INT. DUCT SYSTEM, HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Fischer does not see the flashing light on his radio as he
carefully lifts the grate. He motions for Saito to stay...

INT. TOP ROOM, SOUTH TOWER, HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Cobb TENSES to fire.

                    COBB
          Come on... a little lower... a
          little-

COBB FREEZES- IT IS MAL IN HIS SIGHTS. Ariadne puts up her
binoculars. Spots Mal. Fischer is climbing out of the vent...

                    ARIADNE
          Cobb, that's not really her-

Cobb turns to her-

                    COBB
          How can you know that?

INT. ANTECHAMBER - CONTINUOUS

Fischer moves into the antechamber, cautious-

                       FISCHER
          I'm in.

Fischer turns up the volume-

                    ARIADNE (OVER RADIO)
          Fischer, look out!-

Mal DROPS gracefully to the floor behind him-

                       MAL
          Hello.
                                                       125.

INT. TOP ROOM, SOUTH TOWER, HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Cobb looks at Ariadne-

                    ARIADNE
          Cobb, she's just a projection.
          Fischer... he's real.

Cobb thinks. Nods, TURNS back to the scope- too late- MAL
SHOOTS FISCHER- Cobb reflexively pulls the trigger- Mal GOES
DOWN- Cobb steps back from the scope, STUNNED.

                    ARIADNE
          Eames? Get to the anteroom now!

They run for the door.

INT. DUCT SYSTEM, HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Saito STARTS as he hears the shot. He starts edging forwards,
clutching his belly. And we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. ROOM 528 - NIGHT

The sleepers are floating in a rough stack, top-and-tailed.
Arthur pulls the bedding from the bed and uses the sheet to
bind the sleepers together. And we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT./EXT. VAN - DAY

In EXTREME SLOW MOTION, the van CREEPS DOWNWARDS, still high
above the river... and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Arthur PUSHES the floating stack of sleepers to the elevator.
He hits the button- the doors open- he pushes them in- GRABS
the charges- climbs through the hatch in the ceiling and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. DUCT SYSTEM, HOSPITAL COMPLEX - DAY

Eames steps over Saito, who looks up at him with DYING eyes-

INT. ANTECHAMBER, HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY

Eames jumps out of the vent to find Cobb and Ariadne standing
over the bodies of Fischer and Mal.
                                                       126.

                    EAMES
          What happened?

                    ARIADNE
          Mal killed Fischer-

                    COBB
          I wouldn't shoot her.

Eames grabs a defibrillator from the wall and pulls Fischer's
jacket open-

                    COBB
          It won't do any good-

Eames SHOCKS Fischer's chest...

                    COBB
          Even if you could revive his body,
          his mind's trapped down there. It's
          over.

Eames listens for a pulse. Looks up at Cobb.

                    EAMES
          So that it, then? We failed.

                       COBB
          I'm sorry.

                    EAMES
          It's you who doesn't get back to
          your family.

Eames looks down at Fischer. Then over to the double doors.

                    EAMES
          I wanted to know what was going to
          happen in there. I think we had
          this one.

                    ARIADNE
          There's still a way: We follow
          Fischer down-

They look at her.

                    EAMES
          We're almost out of time-

                    ARIADNE
          Down there they'll be enough time.
          We'll find him-soon as you hear
          Arthur's music start, you use the
          defibrillator to revive him-we give
          him his own early kick from below.
                    (MORE)
                                                       127.
                    ARIADNE (CONT'D)
          Get him in there-
              (points to doors)
          Then, as the music ends you blow
          the hospital and we all ride the
          kick back up through the layers.

Eames looks at her, then to Cobb.

                    EAMES
          Okay, Saito can hold them off while
          I plant the rest of the charges.

                    COBB
          Saito's not going to last, Eames.

                    ARIADNE
          We have to try!

                    EAMES
          Go for it, but I'm taking the kick
          whether you're back or not...

Eames pulls the mechanism from his pack. Offers it to
Ariadne. Cobb watches. Silent. Ariadne pulls out the tubes-

                    ARIADNE
          Can I trust you to do what's
          needed? Mal's down there-

                    COBB
          And I can find her. She'll have
          Fischer.

                    ARIADNE
          How do you know?

                    COBB
          She wants me to come after him. She
          wants me back down there with her.

Cobb rolls up his sleeve. Ariadne rolls up her own sleeve.
Eames NODS. Cobb and Ariadne lie down. Eames hits the button-
WATER. BUBBLES. DROWNING. And we are-

EXT. COAST (LIMBO) - DAY

Ariadne lies in the SURF, STARING up at a CLOUDLESS SKY. A
tremendous BOOM prompts her to look around her- URBAN
BUILDINGS PILED right down to the water. The buildings are
DECAYING, falling into the ocean like a GLACIER calving. Cobb
WADES towards her through the shallow water. Ariadne looks up
at the crumbling city around them.

                    ARIADNE
          This is your world?
                                                         128.

                    COBB
          It was. And this is where she'll
          be.

And we-

                                                    CUT TO:

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT - DAY

Arthur floats on top of the elevator, planting small charges
on the EMERGENCY BRAKES and CABLE. He sets them, GRABS the
other explosives, then PUSHES AWAY, shooting up the shaft. As
he hits the DETONATOR, BLASTING the braking and safety
systems of the elevator, we move into SLOW MOTION, the
fireballs FLAMING OUT in graceful licks and we-

                                                DISSOLVE TO:

INT. ANTECHAMBER - DAY

Eames RACES around, full speed- getting the defibrillator
paddles- laying them by Fischer's body- he runs into the duct-
pulls Saito up to a seated position and hands him a handgun.

                    EAMES
          Come on, Saito. I need you to cover
          Fischer while I plant the charges.

Saito nods weakly, tries to hold the gun. Eames moves to the
window- pulls his machine gun off- checks its load. Ready. He
watches the security patrols climb up the outer walls...
Eames lays down a HAIL of covering fire- then heads outside-

EXT. HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Eames races along the upper terrace dodging fire- BULLETS
SHATTER a window behind him and we move into SLOW MOTION, the
glass CASCADING GENTLY and we-

                                                DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. COAST (LIMBO)- DAY

Cobb and Ariadne climb out of the waves, full speed. They
move into the shadow of the tall, crumbling buildings. The
streets are eerily DESERTED. As they move further in, the
buildings become NEWER, different. Ariadne marvels at the
extraordinary collection of buildings- every architectural
style imaginable in waves of FAILED UTOPIAS.

                    ARIADNE
          You built all this?

                    COBB
          We both did.
                                                       129.

                    ARIADNE
          It's incredible.

                    COBB
          We built for years. Then, when that
          got stale, we started in on the
          memories.

A child's SHOUT echoes through the deserted canyons,
prompting Cobb to look down a side street: a LITTLE BLONDE
BOY crouched, his back to us. A LITTLE BLONDE GIRL joins the
boy, and, as Cobb turns down the street, they run off.

Cobb and Ariadne emerge into a peculiar SQUARE lined with an
eclectic mix of buildings, from APARTMENT BLOCKS to HOUSES.

                    COBB
          This is our neighborhood.

                    ARIADNE
              (confused)
          From what city?

                    COBB
          No. Our neighborhood.
              (pointing)
          That was our first apartment...
          then we moved to that building...
          we got that small house when Mal
          became pregnant.

                    ARIADNE
          You reconstructed them all from
          memory?

                    COBB
          We had time.

Cobb pauses in front of a French country house. Staring.

                    ARIADNE
          What's that?

                    COBB
          The house Mal grew up in.

                    ARIADNE
          Will she be in there?

                    COBB
          No. Come on-

Cobb leads Ariadne to the entrance of a glass skyscraper.
                                                        130.

INT. SKYSCRAPER LOBBY (LIMBO) - CONTINUOUS

Cobb leads Ariadne across the gleaming lobby to the
elevators.

                    COBB
          We both wanted a house, but we both
          loved skyscrapers. In the real
          world we had to choose. Not here.

INT. SKYSCRAPER ELEVATOR (LIMBO) - CONTINUOUS

Cobb pulls out his handgun, and a ziplock bag full of
bullets.

                    ARIADNE
          How do we send Fischer back?

                    COBB
          We need some kind of kick.

                    ARIADNE
          What?

                    COBB
          I'll improvise.

Cobb COCKS his weapon, and the ELEVATOR STOPS. The doors
open. Ariadne moves to exit, Cobb stops her.

                     COBB
          There's something you have to
          understand about me. About
          inception. You see, an idea is like
          a virus...

Cobb leads her out of the lift...

INT. PENTHOUSE (LIMBO) - CONTINUOUS

Cobb and Ariadne step off the lift and into the incongruous
interior of a craftsman house. They cautiously move down the
corridor towards the back of the house...

                    COBB
          Resilient...
              (turns to Ariadne)
          Highly contagious, and an idea can
          grow. The smallest seed of an idea
          can grow to define or destroy your
          world...

Cobb is staring into the kitchen. Mal is sitting at the
table, back to them, staring out at the porch- the TOWERS of
Limbo stretching off behind it.
                                                        131.

                    MAL
          The smallest idea, such as... "Your
          world is not real."

Cobb hands Ariadne his gun and moves towards Mal.

                    MAL
          A simple little thought that
          changes everything...

Ariadne watches as Cobb sits down beside Mal. And we-

                                                    CUT TO:

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT - NIGHT

Arthur FLIES back down the shaft to the top of the elevator,
SQUEEZES past the car to the bottom and starts to set the
MAIN CHARGES ACROSS THE BOTTOM OF THE CAR, and we-

                                                    CUT TO:

INT. PENTHOUSE (LIMBO) - DAY

Cobb touches Mal's arm- she TURNS, angry. It is only now that
we see that she holds a CARVING KNIFE. Mal looks at Ariadne.

                     MAL
          So certain of your world. Of what's
          real. Do you think he is-
               (points at Cobb)
          Or do you think he's as lost as I
          was?

                    COBB
          I know what's real.

                    MAL
          What are the distinguishing
          characteristics of a dream? Mutable
          laws of physics? Tell that to the
          quantum physicists. Reappearance of
          the dead? What about heaven and
          hell? Persecution of the dreamer,
          the creator, the messiah? They
          crucified Christ, didn't they?

                    COBB
          I know what's real.

                    MAL
          No creeping doubts? Not feeling
          persecuted, Dom? Chased around the
          globe by anonymous corporations and
          police forces? The way the
          projections persecute the dreamer?
                                                       132.

Mal puts her hand on his face. Pitying.

                    MAL
          Admit it, Dom. You don't believe in
          one reality anymore. So choose.
          Choose your reality like I did.
          Choose to be here. Choose me.

                    COBB
              (rising anger)
          I have chosen, Mal. Our children. I
          have to get back to them. Because
          you left them. You left us.

                    MAL
          You're wrong, Dom. You're confused...
          our children are here-

A child's SHOUT draws Cobb- James CROUCHES on the porch, back
to us. Philippa joins him, also turned away. Cobb watches,
moved. Mal leans in close.

                    MAL
              (whispers)
          And you'd like to see their faces
          again, wouldn't you, Dom?

                    COBB
          Our real children are waiting for
          me up above.

And we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Arthur scrambles to arrange the sleepers on the floor of the
car- as his hand comes away from Saito, he sees BLOOD on it.
He looks at Saito's belly- the blood is coming through his
shirt. Arthur sticks headphones on sleeping Eames, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. HOSPITAL FORTRESS - DAY

Eames throws a GRENADE, blowing up the security forces trying
to ascend the terraces. He DUCKS to the ground to avoid HEAVY
FIRE- starts unpacking the charges and setting them along the
base of the terraces-
                                                       133.

INT. DUCT SYSTEM, HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Saito looks up as he hears a Security Guard climbing through
the duct... he raises his gun, TREMBLING with weakness...
And we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. KITCHEN, PENTHOUSE (LIMBO) - DAY

Mal laughs at Cobb.

                    MAL
              (laughs)
          Up above? Listen to yourself. You
          judged me for believing the very
          same thing.

Mal points at the children-

                    MAL
          These are our children. Watch.
              (turns to the kids)
          Hey, James! Philippa?!

The children START TO TURN to us- BUT COBB CLOSES HIS EYES.

                    COBB
          They're not real, Mal. Our real
          children are waiting for us-

The children run off. Cobb opens his eyes.

                    MAL
          You keep telling yourself that but
          you don't believe it-

                       COBB
          I know it-

                    MAL
          And what if you're wrong? What if
          I'm what's real?

Cobb is silent.

                    MAL
          You keep telling yourself what you
          know... but what do you believe?
          What do you feel?

Cobb looks at Mal. Struggling.

                    COBB
          Guilt. I feel guilt. And however
          confused I might get.
                    (MORE)
                                                       134.
                    COBB (CONT'D)
          However lost I might seem... it's
          always there. Telling me something.
          Reminding me of the truth.

                    MAL
          What truth?

                    COBB
          That you were wrong to doubt our
          world. That the idea that drove you
          to question your reality was a
          lie...

                    MAL
          How could you know it was a lie?

                    COBB
          Because it was my lie.

                    MAL
              (realizing)
          Because you planted the idea in my
          mind.

                     COBB
          Because I performed inception on my
          own wife, then reaped the bitter
          rewards...

                    ARIADNE
          Why?

                    COBB
          We'd become lost in here. Living in
          a world of infinite possibilities.
          A world where we were gods. I
          realized we needed to escape, but
          she'd locked away her knowledge of
          the unreality of this world...

INSERT CUT: Mal opens the doll's house. Takes the spinning
top, lies it down in the safe. LOCKS IT AWAY.

                    COBB
          I couldn't make Mal understand that
          we needed to break free. To die. So
          I started to search our world...

Cobb turns to Mal, but keeps talking to Ariadne...

INSERT CUT: Cobb WANDERS the streets of Limbo...

                    COBB
          Searching for the right place in
          her mind...
                                                          135.

INSERT CUT: Cobb stops outside the VICTORIAN HOUSE, MAL'S
CHILDHOOD HOME, looking up at it. He heads inside...

                    COBB
          And when I found that place, that
          secret place where she had shut
          away her knowledge years before, I
          broke it open...

INSERT CUT: Cobb looks around Mal's childhood bedroom. Comes
to the doll's house...

                    COBB
          I broke into the deepest recess of
          her mind, to give her the simplest
          little idea.

INSERT CUT: Cobb throws open the safe doors. Sitting on the
shelf of the safe is a spinning top. On its side.

                    COBB
          A truth that she had once known,
          but had chosen to forget...

INSERT CUT: Cobb picks up the totem. He SPINS it in the safe.
IT SPINS AND SPINS WITHOUT END. Cobb CLOSES THE DOOR of the
safe...

                    COBB
          That her world was not real.

INSERT CUT: COBB AND MAL ARRIVE AT TRAIN TRACKS CUTTING
THROUGH WASTELAND.

                    COBB (V.O.)
          That death was a necessary escape.

They lie on the tracks looking into each other's eyes. Mal is
crying. Cobb takes her hand, reassuring. He starts to speak-

                    COBB
          You're waiting for a train. A train
          that will take you far away. You
          know where you hope this train will
          take you, but you can't know for
          sure. Yet it doesn't matter...

Mal looks at him across the railroad tracks. Replies-

                    MAL
          Because you'll be together.

The train comes, OBLITERATING the lovers.
Back in the present- Cobb looks into Mal's eyes. She is
crying.
                                                       136.

                    COBB
          I never thought that the idea I'd
          planted would grow in her mind like
          a cancer. That even after we woke...

INSERT CUT: Cobb looks around the HOTEL SUITE, confused. He
moves to the CURTAINS... Mal is on the ledge opposite.
                    COBB
          You'd continue to believe that your
          world was not real...

Crying, Mal nods-

                    MAL
          That death was the only escape?

INSERT CUT: Mal PLUNGES to her death.

                    MAL
          You killed me.

Cobb looks at Mal. Whispers-

                    COBB
          I was trying to save you-I'm sorry.

Mal comes in close to Cobb. Looks him over.

                    MAL
          You infected my mind. You betrayed
          me. But you can make amends. You
          can still keep your promise. We can
          still be together... right here. In
          our world. The world we built
          together.

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Arthur hits "Play" on his music player- Edith Piaf starts to
ring out, Arthur checks his detonator and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. ANTECHAMBER - DAY

Eames races back in- in the relative quiet he notices MASSIVE
LOW-E MUSICAL TONES. He drops his gun and goes to Fischer's
side...
                                                         137.

INT. DUCT SYSTEM, HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

Saito musters all his remaining strength as the guard emerges-
Saito FIRES, dropping the guard, then COLLAPSES, the gun
clattering to the duct floor... Saito is dead.

INT. ANTECHAMBER - CONTINUOUS

Eames powers up the defibrillator, puts the paddles on
Fischer's chest, then Pow!- he shocks him, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. PENTHOUSE (LIMBO)-DAY

LIGHTNING crackles across the sky- Ariadne sees it.

                    ARIADNE
          We need Fischer.

                    MAL
          You can't have him.

Cobb stares at Mal. Mesmerized.

                    COBB
          If I stay, can she take him back?

                    ARIADNE
          Cobb, what are you saying?

                    MAL
          Fischer's on the porch.

                    ARIADNE
          Cobb, you can't do this.

                    COBB
          Go check he's alive, Ariadne.

Ariadne moves onto the porch, high above the metropolis, and
we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Arthur nods his head in time with the music, counting down,
holding the detonator. He starts bracing himself, and we-

                                                  CUT TO:
                                                       138.

INT. ANTECHAMBER - DAY

Eames recharges the defibrillator. SHOCKS Fischer again, and
we-

                                                  CUT TO:

EXT. PORCH, PENTHOUSE (LIMBO) - DAY

Ariadne looks up as a LARGE BOLT OF LIGHTNING RIPS across the
sky... she looks down to see Fischer, BOUND AND BLOODY, lying
below the rail.

                    ARIADNE
          He's here. And it's time. But you
          have to come with us.

Another massive lightning strike flickers across the sky-

                    ARIADNE
          Cobb, I'm not going to let you lose
          yourself in here! You have to get
          back to your children!

                    COBB
          Send Fischer, I have to stay-

                    ARIADNE
          You can't stay here to be with her-

Cobb turns from Mal. Looks at Ariadne.

                    COBB
          I'm not. Saito is dead by now. That
          means he's here. I have to stay
          here and find him.

Ariadne removes Fischer's gag- pulls him up, onto the rail.
Cobb looks back at Mal.

                    COBB
          I can't stay here to be with her
          because she's not real.

Mal looks at Cobb, furious.

                    MAL
          Not real? I'm the only thing you do
          believe in anymore. Here-doesn't
          this feel real, Dom?

She STABS him in the chest- Cobb WHEEZES- GASPING, looking at
Mal-
                                                          139.

                    COBB
          I wish you were. But I couldn't
          make you real. I'm not capable of
          imagining you in all your
          complexity and... perfection. As
          you really were. You're the best I
          can do. And you're not real.

Mal pulls the knife and moves to STRIKE again-

                    ARIADNE
          No!

A SHOT rings out, Mal GRABS her shoulder- Cobb turns to
Ariadne, who is pointing Cobb's gun.

                    COBB
          What're you doing?

                    ARIADNE
          Improvising.

She KICKS Fischer off the roof- AIMS again at Mal-

Fischer DROPS as the sky LIGHTS UP WITH ELECTRICITY- Fischer
SCREAMS, then GASPS, no longer falling, and we are-

INT. ANTECHAMBER - DAY

Eames pulls the defibrillator from Fischer's chest as he
COUGHS AWAKE.

                    EAMES
          Get in there-quick!

Fischer looks up at the double doors. STAGGERS to his feet.
Fischer pushes open the doors to the STRONGROOM.

INT. STRONGROOM - CONTINUOUS

Fischer walks into the silent white room. At one end of the
room is a bed. A figure lies in the bed. His FATHER.
Breathing with tremendous difficulty. Dying. And we-

                                                     CUT TO:

EXT. PENTHOUSE (LIMBO) - DAY

Ariadne takes aim at Mal-

                    COBB
          No!

Cobb holds Ariadne's gaze. She lowers the gun. And we-

                                                     CUT TO:
                                                        140.

Eames GRABS the detonator- then moves to the door of the
strongroom...

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. ELEVATOR, HOTEL - NIGHT

Arthur HITS THE DETONATOR-

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT - CONTINUOUS

The CHARGES on the bottom of the elevator EXPLODE, and we
move into EXTREME SLOW MOTION as the flames BALLOON-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. STRONGROOM - CONTINUOUS

A RUMBLE BUILDS as Fischer approaches the bed, overcome with
emotion. His Father sees him. Starts trying to speak. Fischer
leans in...

                    FATHER
              (hoarse whisper)
          I... was ... dis ... dis ...

                    FISCHER
          I know, Dad. You were disappointed
          that I couldn't be you.

The dying man SHAKES HIS HEAD with surprising energy.

                    FATHER
              (whisper)
          I was disappointed... that you
          tried.

Fischer hears this. And we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT - NIGHT

The elevator car is ROCKETED along its track by the explosion-

INT. ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

Arthur is SMASHED against the floor of the car next to the
sleepers who SHUDDER with the force of ACCELERATION- and we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. ANTECHAMBER - DAY

Eames WATCHES Fischer-
                                                       141.

                    EAMES
              (to himself) )
          Come on, come on...

INT. STRONGROOM - DAY

The Father collapses back onto the pillow. Fischer starts to
weep. His Father reaches out a trembling hand but when
Fischer tries to hold IT, he SHAKES his son's hand away...

He is reaching for the SAFE next to his bed. His fingers
fumble at the keypad, he can't open it. His son pushes
5,2,8,4,9,1 into the keypad. Opens it. Inside the safe is the
WILL. And beside it is a HOMEMADE PINWHEEL, clearly made by a
child. By Fischer. He takes it out, MARVELING at it. He turns
to his father, but his father is dead.

Eames, watching from the door, HITS THE DETONATOR-

EXT. HOSPITAL COMPLEX - CONTINUOUS

A line of EXPLOSIONS RIPS ALONG THE LOWER WALL... the ENTIRE
BUILDING STARTS TO SLIDE DOWN THE MOUNTAIN-

EXT. PENTHOUSE (LIMBO) - DAY

A FIERCE WIND starts HOWLING through the house as the sky
outside DARKENS. Cobb shields Mal against the blast- looks up
at Ariadne, who HOLDS the railing, FIGHTING the wind-

                    COBB
          That's the kick-you have to go!

                    ARIADNE
          You're coming!

                    COBB
          No, I'm not. I'm staying here to
          find Saito.
              (turns to Mal)
          And to say goodbye.

Ariadne loosens her grip on the railing...

                    ARIADNE
          Don't lose yourself. Find Saito.
          And bring him back.

                    COBB
          I will.

Ariadne lets the wind pull her off the edge- FALLING- and we-

INT. ANTECHAMBER - CONTINUOUS

Ariadne DROPS as the FLOOR COLLAPSES- her eyes SNAP OPEN-
                                                          142.

EXT. PENTHOUSE (LIMBO) - DAY

Cobb holds Mal in his arms. The wind DIES...

                    MAL
          We'd be together forever. You
          promised me.

                    COBB
          I know. But we can't. And I'm
          sorry.

                    MAL
          You remember when you asked me to
          marry you? You said you dreamt that
          we'd grow old together.

                    COBB
          And we did...

Mal looks at Cobb... thinking. Remembering.

INSERT CUT: TWO ELDERLY PEOPLE (MAL AND COBB) WALK THROUGH
LIMBO... ACROSS A WASTELAND... TWO ELDERLY HANDS CLUTCH EACH
OTHER AS THEY LIE DOWN ON THE RAILROAD TRACK...

                    COBB
          I miss you more than I can bear...
          but we had our time together. And
          now I have to let go...

She nods, weakly. Cobb holds Mal as her eyes close...
DYING... and we-

INT. STRONGROOM - CONTINUOUS

Fischer and his Father's body DROP AWAY-

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Ariadne DROPS inside the ROCKETING ELEVATOR, and as it
SMASHES INTO THE TOP OF THE SHAFT Ariadne SMASHES into-

INT./EXT. VAN INTO RIVER - DAY

THE WATER, THE VAN CRUNCHING WITH THE IMPACT- WATER CRASHING
THROUGH THE BROKEN WINDOWS FLOODING THE INTERIOR...

Fischer's EYES OPEN, PANICKING- he UNBUCKLES HIMSELF, pushes
out of the broken window- STOPS, goes back to UNBUCKLE
Browning and DRAG him out.
                                                       143.

EXT. RIVER - CONTINUOUS

Fischer breaks the surface with Browning, who COUGHS and
GASPS. He starts PULLING for the near bank, struggling
through the rain-impacted water-

INT. VAN, UNDERWATER - CONTINUOUS

Ariadne, Arthur and Yusuf wait calmly underwater. They are
sharing TWO REGULATORS pulled from beneath the front seat.
Arthur turns to Saito. There is blood in the water around
Saito's belly- his eyes are LIFELESS- Arthur feels for a
pulse... turns to Cobb, whose eyes are lifeless... Ariadne
GRABS Arthur's elbow, pulling him away...

EXT. RIVERBANK - MOMENTS LATER

Fischer turns Browning/Eames over. They lie there, exhausted.

                    BROWNING
          I'm sorry, Robert.

Fischer stares at the rain on the water.

                    FISCHER
          The will means that Dad wanted me
          to be my own man, not live for him.
              (turns to Browning) )
          And I'm going to, Uncle Peter.

Browning nods. Wipes the rain from his face. In the puddle
beside them, the reflection is not Browning, but Eames.

EXT. UNDERNEATH BRIDGE IN THE RAIN - MOMENTS LATER

Arthur sits on the riverbank, breathing heavily.

                    ARTHUR
          What happened?

                    ARIADNE
          Cobb stayed.

                      ARTHUR
          With Mal?

                    ARIADNE
          No. To find Saito.

Arthur looks out at the water below the bridge.

                    ARTHUR
          He'll be lost...

                    ARIADNE
          No. He'll be alright.
                                                       144.

And we-

                                                  CUT TO:

EXT. DAWN. CRASHING SURF.

The waves TOSS a BEARDED MAN onto wet sand.

As the Japanese Security Guard turns him onto his back, we
realize that this is Cobb- OLDER. WEARY. TRAVELLED...

INT. DINING ROOM, CASTLE - DAY

Cobb WOLFS his food. The Elderly Japanese Man (Saito, 90
years old) watches him.

                    SAITO
          So... have you come to kill me?

Cobb does not look up.

                    SAITO
          I've been waiting for someone to
          come for me...

                    COBB
          Someone from your half-remembered
          dream...?

Saito peers at Cobb.

                    SAITO
          Cobb? Not possible-he and I were
          young men together. And I am an old
          man...

                    COBB
          Filled with regret?

Saito REMEMBERS, nods...

                    SAITO
          Waiting to die alone, yes.

Cobb is STARING at something on the table.

                    COBB
          I came back for you... I came to
          remind you of what you once knew...

Cobb gestures at the table. Saito follows his gaze down to
the polished surface of the table...

                    COBB
          That this world is not real.
                                                       145.

The top IS STILL SPINNING PERFECTLY, AS IF IT WILL NEVER
TOPPLE. Saito looks at the top. Then back to Cobb.

                    SAITO
          You came to convince me to honor
          our arrangement?

                    COBB
          Yes. And to take a leap of faith.

As Saito-san listens to Cobb, he looks at the GUN on the
table between them...

                    COBB
          Come back and we'll be young men
          together again.

The elderly Saito looks at Cobb. Nods. And we-

                                                  CUT TO:

INT. FIRST CLASS CABIN, 747 - DAY

Ariadne watches Cobb. His eyes are closed.

                    FLIGHT ATTENDANT (O.S.)
          Hot towel, sir?

His EYES FLICKER OPEN. He takes the towel with a nod. Ariadne
smiles. Relieved.

                    FLIGHT ATTENDANT
          We'll be landing in Los Angeles in
          about twenty minutes. Do you need
          immigration forms?

Cobb nods. Takes a landing card. Looks around the cabin.

Saito is WATCHING him. Serious. Haunted. Holding Cobb's gaze,
SAITO PICKS UP THE PHONE AND DIALS. Cobb nods thanks...

INT. ARRIVALS, LAX - LATER

Cobb steps forwards to the IMMIGRATION OFFICIAL. Hands him
his passport. Nervous. The Official takes a beat, looks Cobb
up and down, then WHUMP!- the passport is stamped. As Cobb
takes it back, he spots Ariadne at the next counter. She nods
at him. He nods back. Then moves off...

As Cobb passes through baggage claim, he exchanges subtle
greetings with Eames and Yusuf.

Arthur smiles broadly at Cobb. Cobb brushes past Fischer, who
glances back at him as if thinking maybe he should know him,
then moves on...
                                                          146.

As Cobb emerges into the crowded arrivals hall, he spots
Professor Miles, waving at him...

INT. KITCHEN, COBB AND MAL'S HOUSE - DAY

Cobb enters with Miles. Drops his bags. Moves to the table,
looking out at the overgrown garden. He reaches into his
pocket, takes out his pewter spinning top, lowers it to the
table and SPINS IT- a CHILD'S SHOUT makes him look up-

Through the window, James and Philippa have run into view,
playing, THEIR FACES TURNED AWAY... Cobb STARES at the back
of his children's heads... Miles moves to the window and
KNOCKS on the glass-

James and Philippa TURN- see their Dad. He steps to the
window, watching their BRIGHT FACES SHINING as they run
towards him...

Behind him, on the table, the spinning top is STILL SPINNING.
And we-

FADE OUT.

CREDITS.

END.
