


                           LITTLE MEN



                           Written by

                  Ira Sachs & Mauricio Zacharias






                                    SHOOTING SCRIPT: July 27, 2015




1   INT. UPPER WEST SIDE SCHOOL/CLASSROOM - DAY                   1

    Loud conversation, laughter, singing, and even dancing: the
    teacher is missing in a 7th Grade classroom. This rare
    absence of authority is intensely enjoyed by the crowd. It
    looks like it's party time for these KIDS.

    They talk and laugh, show each other photos on their phones,
    draw spaceships and baboons on their notebooks, and fold
    pieces of paper into airplanes that fly around the room.

    In a corner, a GROUP OF GIRLS dance to the tune of a song
    they are listening to on headphones.

    On the other side of the room, TWO BOYS play like in a sword
    fight, without swords.

    Suddenly, someone turns out the lights. There's random
    shouting and laughter.

    An overhead projector is turned on, and a couple of the kids
    start to make puppet figures that are seen on the white
    screen.

    A door opens, and a voice is heard, grave and authoritative.

                        MR. PLUMMER (O.S.)
              What is going on here?!

    The kids scramble back to their seats as the lights go on.
    MR. PLUMMER, the teacher, has come in.

                        MR. PLUMMER
              What is this mess?? Didn't you
              promise me to be quiet? Can't I
              even leave you alone for five
              minutes?? Lionel, sit down. Sit
              down, I said! Melissa, put your
              phone away. Put it away right now!
              I asked you to be quiet, and...
              look at you. What a disappointment.

    Mr. Plummer wanders around the classroom, inspecting
    everyone. Each kid has a different reaction. Some are
    frightened, others think it's funny. Some are respectful, and
    some others, defiant.

    The teacher stops by a desk that's covered by a VERY COLORFUL
    DRAWING, while the STUDENT rushes to put away his large
    collection of Caran d'Ache pencils neatly in the box.

                        MR. PLUMMER (CONT'D)
              Jacob, what is this?
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15               2.


JACOB "JAKE" JARDINE is pale and slender, with straight black
hair, a bit longer than the other kids, and deep brown eyes -
pretty in a delicate way, and shy, different from the other
tougher boys in the class.

                    JAKE
          It's the sky, Mr. Plummer.

Mr. Plummer picks up his drawing and shows it to the class.

                    MR. PLUMMER
          A green sky with yellow stars??

                    JAKE
              (barely audible)
          It's Camp Jupiter's sky.

                    MR. PLUMMER
          Watch out, Jacob: Vincent van Gogh
          ended up cutting off his own ear.

Some of the boys have a ball with this. Girls cover their
mouths not to laugh out loud. Jake blushes, his eyes fill up
with quiet, angry tears; he wasn't even talking to anyone,
he was just drawing, doing his thing. Life is so unfair.

                    MR. PLUMMER
          Quiet!! I said quiet, everybody!
          This is not a playroom. It's not an
          art studio. Much less a disco, Ms.
          Neves. It's a classroom. It is my
          classroom, and I asked you to be
          quiet. A simple request, and you
          showed me you don't know how to
          behave yourselves. Was I talking to
          the walls? Amanda, please collect
          everybody's homework, and bring
          them to me.

AMANDA, the teacher's favorite, promptly goes around the
class collecting homework. The individual students now listen
intently to Mr. Plummer's speech. But there are exceptions;
one or two still defy his authority, swallowing a laughter
that cannot contain itself.

                    MR. PLUMMER (O.S.)
          If I had to leave the class, it is
          because I had something very
          important to do. I come back, and I
          see you screaming and dancing!
          There's a saying, it's an old
          saying, that says: "Silence is
          golden." Write this down, children.
          "
                    (MORE)
                      Shooting Script 07/27/15                  3.

                        MR. PLUMMER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
              Silence is golden but my eyes still
              see. Talking is cheap, people
              follow like sheep."

    Mr. Plummer writes this up on the board. Jake, instead of
    writing, furiously draws a wild dancing cobra on his
    notebook.

                        MR. PLUMMER
              What does this mean?

    Amanda raises her hand, ready to give an answer.

                        MR. PLUMMER
              Not now, Amanda. I want you all to
              write down your thoughts on this:
              "silence is golden."

    He underlines "silence is golden" on the board.

                        MR. PLUMMER (CONT'D)
              Every child is to write an essay on
              its meaning. Two pages minimum.
              That's your homework for tomorrow.
              Don't even come to the class if you
              haven't done it! Now, let's open
              our books. Page 23. Lionel, start
              reading from the top. Stand up,
              please. Stand up so we can all hear
              you.


2   EXT. UPPER WEST SIDE SCHOOL - DAY                                2

    Large groups of KIDS are coming out through the main gate of
    the school. PILAR, a Filipino woman in her 50's, waits
    outside looking attentively at every kid who walks out. She
    sees the one she's looking for.

    In the middle of different groups and cliques, Jake comes
    walking alone.

                        PILAR
              Jake! Jake! Hey, Jake! Here!

    Jake sees her, then runs and gives her a big hug, longer than
    expected.

                        PILAR
              Hey hey hey. Look at you.

    She ruffles his hair lovingly.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15               4.


                         JAKE
               What happened?

                         PILAR
               Your parents are going to be coming
               home very late tonight. Come on.
               Let's go.

     They begin to walk together away from the school.

                         JAKE
               I'm thirsty.

                         PILAR
               We can stop by Papaya King on the
               way home.

                            JAKE
               Yes!


2A   EXT. UPPER WEST SIDE STREET - DAY                         2A

     Jake and Pilar are walking. Jake now has a drink from Papaya
     King in his hand.

                         PILAR
               Listen, Jake. It's your
               grandfather Max. There have been
               some... developments.



                            JAKE
               Some what?

                         PILAR
               I mean, he got sick, and had to go
               to the hospital.

                         JAKE
               Sick with what?

                         PILAR
               I'm sure your parents will talk to
               you when they get home. But I'm
               going to make dinner for you. What
               do you want?

     He thinks for a moment.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15               5.


                         JAKE
               I don't know.
                   (pause)
               What happened to Grandpa Max?

                         PILAR
               When you're old, things happen,
               Jake. C'mon, let's make the light.
               We need to get to the grocery.

     They cross the street and continue on.


2B   INT. UPPER WEST SIDE APARTMENT/JAKE'S ROOM - DAY          2B

     Jake is at his desk working on a drawing.


3    INT. UPPER WEST SIDE APARTMENT/KITCHEN & LIVING ROOM - DAY 3

     A comfortable, but cramped, NYC apartment.

     In the kitchen, Pilar is preparing a steaming pot of
     caldereta, Filipino beef stew.

     A phone starts ringing, and Jake storms out of his bedroom.

                         PILAR
               Hey! Did you finish your homework?

     Jake grabs the phone.

                         JAKE
               Jardine residence, good evening.

     We hear the voice on the other end of the line.

                          STU GERSHMAN (O.S.)
                   (over the phone)
               Good evening. And who am I talking
               to?

                         JAKE
               Who is this?

                         STU GERSHMAN (O.S.)
                   (over the phone)
               This is Stu Gershman, I'm an old
               friend of Max Jardine's. Is this
               Jacob?

                         JAKE
               Yes.
                    Shooting Script 07/27/15             6.


                    STU GERSHMAN (O.S.)
              (over the phone)
          Oh Jacob, last time I saw you, you
          were a little baby. I guess you're
          all grown up now.

                       JAKE
          Umm...

                    STU GERSHMAN (O.S.)
              (over the phone)
          Is your dad at home? Your mom?

                    JAKE
          No, they're not home yet.

                    STU GERSHMAN (O.S.)
              (over the phone)
          Oh well. I'm calling because... I'm
          very sorry to hear about your
          grandfather, Jacob. Max and I knew
          each other for so long, we met when
          we were about your age. You must be
          - what, ten now?

                       JAKE
          Twelve.

                    STU GERSHMAN (O.S.)
          He was such a dear old friend of
          mine, your granddaddy was. Do you
          know when the service is going to
          be?

                    JAKE
          What service?

                    STU GERSHMAN (O.S.)
              (over the phone)
          The funeral. I imagine there's
          going to be a service soon?

Jake pauses to take this in - he has just learned that his
grandfather has died.

                    JAKE
          Hold on a second.

He goes to the kitchen and gives the phone to Pilar.

                       PILAR
          Who is it?
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              7.


                        JAKE
              I don't know.


4   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - DAY                         4

    LEONOR CALVELLI rolls down the metal shutters of a Brooklyn
    storefront. A sign above reads "CASA DE MODA". It's the
    ground floor commercial space of a two-story row house on a
    commercial street in Brooklyn. She pushes down the last bit
    of the gate with her foot to lock it up. You can still go in
    and out through a door space that's open. She lights up a
    cigarette and leans on the gate, calmly surveying the street -
    a daily routine.

    Leonor is in her early 50's, dark hair and dark eyes, her
    beauty toughened up by a hard life. After a few puffs, she
    hears a car parking in front, doors open and close. Leonor
    recognizes someone, and throws her cigarette out. She opens
    the door, and calls inside the store.

                        LEONOR
              Antonio! Antonio!

                          TONY (O.S.)
              What?!

                        LEONOR
              Come! Come here!*

    *- Throughout the film, italics will indicate when Leonor,
    Tony and others speak Spanish.

    She forces a smile, greeting the still unknown visitor, then
    she turns to inside and calls again, impatiently.

                          LEONOR
              Antonio!!


5   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - DAY                         5

    Across the street from Leonor, Jake is helping his parents
    BRIAN and KATHY JARDINE get plates of food wrapped in
    cellophane and other catering goods from out of the car. The
    couple, dressed in formal dark clothes, have the youthful
    look of people who can afford to take a nice vacation once a
    year.

    Jake sees when ANTONIO "TONY" CALVELLI, a handsome 13 year
    old boy with dark hair and eyes, comes running out from
    inside the store, and stops next to Leonor.
                    Shooting Script 07/27/15               8.


                    LEONOR
          What were you doing?? If I say
          `come here', you have to come. Give
          them a hand. Go.

But Tony doesn't move, unsure of what to do. He looks at
Jake, who is looking at him.

Brian drops a plate in Jake's hands and goes towards Leonor,
with an extended hand.

                     BRIAN
          Hello Mrs. Calvelli. Brian Jardine,
          we've met.

                    LEONOR
          Of course, Brian. I'm so sad for
          what has happened. I'm so sorry.

Jake sees when Leonor, suddenly overtaken by emotion, grabs
his father's hand and pulls him closer for a hug, which makes
Brian visibly uncomfortable. Leonor tries to hide her tears.

                    LEONOR
          I'm sorry. Your father was a such a
          wonderful man.

                       BRIAN
          Thank you.

                    LEONOR
          He really was, you know.

                       BRIAN
          I know.

                    LEONOR
          This is my son Antonio.

Kathy approaches, carrying a plate of food.

                    BRIAN
          I don't think you've met my wife
          Kathy.

                    LEONOR
          Hi. Nice to meet you. Leonor.

Kathy smiles warmly, as Brian opens the door to the house.

                    KATHY
          So nice to meet you too. Sorry, my
          hands are full.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15               9.


                    BRIAN
          We're having a little reception
          upstairs. Just family and a few
          friends.

                       LEONOR
          Of course.

Brian and Kathy go upstairs with their bags.

Left alone by the car, Jake tries to grab a sketchbook from
inside as he balances the big plate of food with his other
hand and then, a bit clumsy, ends up dropping the bag.

Tony is suddenly there to help him out. He kneels down to
pick up pages with drawings, pencils and stuff spilling out
of the bag, immediately recognizing the first drawing he sees
- a girl with red wings flying through a thundercloud.

                    TONY
          Ella the Harpy!

                    JAKE
          Can you hand that to me?

                    TONY
          She's a nerd, but I have a thing
          for redheads... Don't you?

                    JAKE
          Here, pass me that. I can carry it.

In the distance, Leonor watches, while Tony helps by pulling
another set of plates and bottles out of the car, organizing
a crate to be carried off.

                    TONY
          Tyson is such a douchebag.

                    JAKE
          Not in the end, he's not. I just
          finished The Blood of Olympus.

                    TONY
          I have the game, wanna play?

                    JAKE
          Now? I'd like to, but... I can't.
          It's my grandfather's--

                    TONY
          I know. I never know what to say in
          these situations.
                    Shooting Script 07/27/15            10.


                    JAKE
          I think you're supposed to say,
          "I'm sorry for your loss."

                    TONY
          That's right! I'm sorry for your
          loss.

                    JAKE
          Oh, that's okay.

Tony finds one last drawing that was left on the floor in the
car.

                    TONY
          Wait a minute: what's this one
          here?

                    JAKE
          It's the sky.

                    TONY
          Did you make this??

                    JAKE
          Yeah, it's the sky above Camp
          Jupiter, the day of the battle.

                    TONY
          You're a real artist!

                    JAKE
          Not really.

                    TONY
          Of course you are. This is awesome!
          You know you'll really like this
          neighborhood.

                     JAKE
          We don't live here. It's just a
          reception.

                    TONY
          It's become a very bohemian area.
          You know what bohemian means?

                     JAKE
          Yeah...

                    TONY
          Very artistic.
                      Shooting Script 07/27/15              11.


                        BRIAN (O.S.)
              Got it, son?

    Brian is back by the car to pick up the stuff.

                        BRIAN
              You okay with that, Antonio?

                        TONY
              You can call me Tony.

                        BRIAN
              Well thank you, Tony. I appreciate
              the help.

    The two boys follow Brian towards the house, the three of
    them carrying plates and bags.


6   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/FAMILY AREA - DUSK                     6

    The apartment is old and in desperate need of a paint job.
    It's a large space, crammed with the stuff of a long life.
    There are family photos, piles of National Geographic
    magazines next to faded velvety couches and solid furniture.
    A small, vintage color TV sits alone in the corner.

    There's a quiet reception going on, with most people wearing
    black, or dark colors, and talking softly to each other.
    Amongst the mostly older friends and relatives of the
    deceased are Brian's sister AUDREY and her husband JAMES, and
    their teenage son, LIAM, dressed in a suit. They are sitting
    on a couch next to Brian, leafing through a photo album.

                        BRIAN
              Let me see. That was our first year
              in the house. Look; I still had
              braces.

                        AUDREY
              Dad looks so young here.

                        BRIAN
              He was a handsome guy.

                        AUDREY
              Listen to you.

                        BRIAN
              What?

                        AUDREY
              You look just like him, and you
              know it. Can I have this? Please?
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                12.


                         BRIAN
               Yes. I'll let you have the photo
               IF...

     Brian picks up a book on the table.

                         BRIAN
               ...you let me have the first
               edition of The Velveteen Rabbit.

                         AUDREY
               Now, wait a minute.


6A   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/KITCHEN - DAY                        6A

     In the kitchen, KATHY is re-furbishing a tray of pastries
     with new ones from a box from an Italian bakery. Pilar is
     beside her, cutting fruit for a pitcher of punch.


6B   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/FAMILY AREA - DAY                    6B

     Jake is sipping some juice, like a cocktail, and looking at
     the art on the wall: a couple of oil paintings of Parisian
     streets in the wintertime of dubious quality doesn't arouse
     much interest, and he ends up in front of a vintage movie
     poster on the wall, with ahead of its time 60s graphics -
     probably the best piece of art in the apartment.

                         BRIAN (O.S.)
               Jake, come here.

     Jake goes to see his father, who's standing next to STU
     GERSHMAN, a well dressed gentleman in his 70's.

                         BRIAN
               Do you remember Grandpa's friend
               Stu Gershman?

                         JAKE
               I don't know.

                         STU GERSHMAN
               Look at you, all grown up now.
               How's school?

                         JAKE
               Okay.

                         STU GERSHMAN
               So, what kind of sports do you like
               to play?
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              13.


Jake doesn't play any sports, and it's probably a point of
contention between father and son, given the sudden
uncomfortable moment of silence.

                    BRIAN
          He likes to draw and paint.

Jake blushes.

                    STU GERSHMAN
          So you'd like to be an illustrator
          when you grow up?

                    JAKE
          I don't know.

                    STU GERSHMAN
          Well, come here. Come here.

He pulls Jake in uncomfortably tight.

                    STU GERSHMAN
          I want to tell you a few things
          about your grandfather, Jake: he
          liked to play ball but was a
          horrible pitcher; he hated summer
          but went nuts seeing the ladies
          walk by in mini-skirts; and he was
          the most loyal friend you could
          have. Loyalty was his greatest
          quality.

                    BRIAN
          Aww... Thanks, Stu. Did you hear
          that, Jake?

Jake is saved from Stu by a knock on the door. He runs to
open it, and there she is: Leonor holding a beautiful cake.
Kathy, who also heard the knock, comes to see what's going
on.

                    LEONOR
          It's a dessert we make for special
          occasions in my country.

She hands the cake to Kathy.

                    LEONOR
          I hope you like it.

Jake watches everything.

                    KATHY
          Oh my God. You didn't have to.
                      Shooting Script 07/27/15                14.


                        LEONOR
              Max loved this cake, so I
              thought....

                        KATHY
              Come in. You should come in.

                           LEONOR
              It's okay.

                        KATHY
              Please. I insist.

                        LEONOR
              No, I just wanted to bring the
              cake.

                        KATHY
              Sorry if we didn't say anything
              earlier. Brian and I... we're both
              very tired. It's all been so fast.

                        LEONOR
              It's okay. I still have some
              paperwork to do at the store.

                        KATHY
              Thank you so much for this. It's
              very kind of you. Thank you.

    Leonor leaves, and Jake shuts the door. Kathy is left with
    the beautiful cake on her hands. She looks across the room
    and sees Brian, in the middle of a crowd, holding court,
    being a good actor.


7   INT. JARDINE HOUSE/STAIRWELL - NIGHT                            7

    Brian walks down the interior stairs of the house, carrying a
    heavy bag full of trash. At the bottom of the stairs, he
    turns and walks down the dark corridor that leads to the
    backyard.

    He finds the large metal trash containers, and throws the
    bags in.

    Alone for the first time all day, Brian is overtaken by
    memories and allows himself a good cry.


8   INT. CASTING OFFICE - DAY                                       8

    Brian is sitting at a table in a bare room, speaking in a
    strong Italian-American Brooklyn accent.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              15.


                    BRIAN
          I swear B, I'm surprised at you. I
          sit there waiting for you to wake
          up, but everything's great with
          you.

We see he is holding a script, next to SUZANNE, a famous
actress, who's also with a script in her hands. They are
reading from Arthur Miller's A View from the Bridge. Brian is
reading the role of "Eddie" as Suzanne plays his wife,
"Beatrice".

An OPERATOR tapes Brian's performance with a video camera on
a tripod.

                    SUZANNE
          No, everything ain't great with me.

                    BRIAN
          No?

                    SUZANNE
          No. But I got other worries.

                    BRIAN
          Why? What other worries you got?

                    SUZANNE
          When am I gonna be a wife again,
          Eddie?

                    BRIAN
          I ain't been feeling good. They
          bother me since they came.

                    SUZANNE
          It's almost three months you don't
          feel good. It's three months,
          Eddie.

                    BRIAN
          I don't know, B. I don't want to
          talk about it.

                    SUZANNE
          Nice! Okay.

Suzanne smiles at Brian, already out of character. But Brian
really would love to keep going.

                    BRIAN
          You go "you don't like me, heh?"
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15                 16.


Suzanne looks for help from the audience, gently cutting
Brian off.

                    DEBORAH (O.S.)
          That's good, Jardine.

The casting director, DEBORAH, sits with scripts and lists
under a reading light, and a male ASSISTANT next to her. A
DIRECTOR a PRODUCER, and a PRODUCER'S ASSISTANT sit next to
him.

                    SUZANNE
              (to the director)
          Yeah, I need a break.

                    DEBORAH
          Take a break, Suzanne.

Suzanne smiles again at Brian, and comes close to kiss him
goodbye.

                    SUZANNE
          I'm starving. I've been here since
          ten.

                       BRIAN
          Of course.

                    SUZANNE
          How's Kathy?

                    BRIAN
          She's good.

                    SUZANNE
          And your son?

                    BRIAN
          Jake. He's great. He's in seventh
          grade already.

                    SUZANNE
          Oh my God, I remember him running
          around backstage at The Lortel,
          when we did...

                    BRIAN
          Dark Rapture?

                    SUZANNE
          Yes! How old was he?

                    BRIAN
          Two. Three, maybe.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                17.


                        SUZANNE
              Time flies by.

                        BRIAN
              It really does.

                        SUZANNE
              Well, it was great to see you.

                        BRIAN
              Great to see you also, Suzanne.
              Maybe we'll see each other again
              soon.

                         SUZANNE
              I hope so.
                  (to the audience)
              Jamie? Do you have lunch for me?


9   EXT. CASTING OFFICE - DAY                                        9

    ROGER, Brian's agent, is standing outside the theater,
    texting on his phone. Brian comes out, and they begin to
    walk.

                        BRIAN
              She fucking hates me.

                        ROGER
              She doesn't hate you.

                        BRIAN
              Ever since B.U. She dropped out - I
              stayed and graduated. Every time
              we've seen each other since then,
              she always tries to prove that
              she's better than me.

                        ROGER
              You're paranoid. You did okay
              there.

                        BRIAN
              Did I?

                        ROGER
              Yes. But it's true that she'll have
              a say in who's cast as her husband.

                        BRIAN
              I'm telling you. She doesn't like
              me. I'm in a slump, Roger. You need
              to help me here.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                 18.


                         ROGER
               Listen, maybe Broadway is not the
               right way to go for you right now.

                         BRIAN
               I thought that was the strategy.

                         ROGER
               Why don't we go have some coffee?
               You have options. There are a bunch
               of things that could pan out. Let
               me just finish this.

     Roger goes back to his texting.


10   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT - DAY                                 10

     The apartment has been completely redone. The old furniture
     is out, more modern - if used - furniture is in. There's less
     stuff, so it looks more spacious. There are new appliances in
     the kitchen, and some of the art from Brian and Kathy's old
     Manhattan apartment now hangs on the walls, which have been
     newly painted with fresh colors. Brian, Kathy and Jake have
     moved in, and it looks really nice.

     There are still piles of plates and pans to be put away, and
     a few boxes on the floor by the kitchen. Pilar is taking
     stuff out of one of them. Plates and trays and things wrapped
     individually in bubble wrap and newspaper. Kathy unwraps them
     and looks for places in the kitchen cabinets to put them
     away.

     While she's putting them away, Pilar unwraps a beautiful
     crystal serving plate.

                         PILAR
               I don't remember this.

     Kathy takes a looks at it, trying to remember where it came
     from.

                         KATHY
               Oh my God. We took it home.


11   INT. CASA DE MODA/STORE - DAY                                11

     The store has women's clothes on display on simple racks,
     with a few chosen pieces shown on a large table. It's an old-
     fashioned store; the ambiance is simple and unsophisticated.

     BIANCA, a salesgirl, is showing a dress with floral patterns
     to a CUSTOMER as Kathy comes in, carrying the crystal plate.
                    Shooting Script 07/27/15            19.


She is going to say hello to the salesgirl, but doesn't want
to interrupt and goes directly towards Leonor, who is in the
back of the store behind a sewing machine, fixing the collar
of a shirt.

                     KATHY
          Leonor.

                    LEONOR
          Hi Kathy. The boys are in my
          office, in the back.

                    KATHY
          No, no. Look what I just found.

                    LEONOR
          It's my plate.

                    KATHY
          I think that night we just ended up
          taking everything back to our
          apartment. And then we put things
          away, and I forgot. I'm so sorry.

                    LEONOR
          No worries! Please.

                    KATHY
          It's a beautiful plate.

She takes it from Kathy's hand.

                    LEONOR
          Are you not working today?

                    KATHY
          I don't see patients on Monday. I
          need a day a week to organize my
          life, you know.

                    LEONOR
          Good for you.

                    KATHY
          The store looks cute.

                    LEONOR
          Huh... we're not doing so well.

                    KATHY
          I like that dress over there. The
          one with the floral patterns.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                 20.


                         LEONOR
               I love that one. You should try it
               on.

                         KATHY
               I have to go back-

                         LEONOR
               Oh, c'mon. It'll take a minute.


12   INT. CASA DE MODA/STORE - DAY                                12

     Kathy pulls open the curtain wearing the floral dress, and
     shows it to Leonor, who's waiting outside.

                         LEONOR
               Perfection.

     Kathy walks towards the mirror wearing the floral dress.

                         KATHY
               Are you sure? I don't know.

     Leonor comes with expert hands and pulls a pinch on the
     shoulder strap.

                         LEONOR
               It looks great. All you need is a
               little fixing up here, maybe a tiny
               bit tighter here on the waist. But
               the dress is beautiful.

                         KATHY
               How much is it?

                         LEONOR
               Whatever the price, I'll give you
               ten percent discount. Let me see.

     Leonor looks for a tag around the cuffs.

                         KATHY
               Did you make this?

                         LEONOR
               No. Not this one. But everything
               here is handmade by the designers.
               This one is two hundred and fifty.
               It's made by a woman named Talita -
               she's from Colombia, and very
               talented. They probably do it in
               their kitchens, you know what I
               mean? They're not famous. Yet.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              21.


13   INT. CASA DE MODA/OFFICE - DAY                              13

     There's a video game on the TV. Monsters and battles, and
     sound effects.

     And sitting in front of the TV set, taking it all in, are
     Jake and Tony. It's a small space in the back of the store
     that has been turned into an office - just a simple desk, a
     TV, a chair and a couch in the corner.

     Kathy comes in, dressed in the floral pattern dress. Leonor
     is right behind her.

                         KATHY
               Guys, what do you think?

     The boys don't move an inch, their attention 100% on the TV
     screen.

                         KATHY
               Jake? Jake, what is our deal?

     She turns to Leonor.

                         KATHY
               They're like zombies when they
               start playing these games.

                         JAKE
                   (eyes still on the screen)
               Mom. I'm on vacation!

                            KATHY
               So?

                         JAKE
               Dad said it was okay.

                         KATHY
               We have this rule in the house; no
               games during the week. And no
               internet before five either.

                         LEONOR
               But during vacation they have all
               this free time, and what are you
               going to do?

                         TONY
               Shhh! Quiet!!

                          LEONOR
               Antonio! Watch your tone of voice,
               por favor!
                          (MORE)
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              22.

                         LEONOR (CONT'D)
                   (back to Kathy)
               When he's playing this stuff - I
               know it's not so good, but at least
               he's around, and I know where to
               find him.

     Tony pauses the game.

                         TONY
                   (polite)
               Mrs. Jardine. Maybe you will let us
               finish this level, please?

                         LEONOR
               That's better.

                          KATHY
               Sure, you can finish. But first you
               have to tell me: what do you think?
               The dress?

                         TONY
               Great. I actually thought it was
               yours.

                         KATHY
               Jake?

                         JAKE
               Love it. Love the flowers.

     The boys will say anything to get rid of their moms, so they
     can continue to play their game.


14   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/JAKE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT               14

     On the wall of Jake's new bedroom is the vintage movie poster
     that used to belong to his grandfather. The room is painted
     in bright colors, with a small bed, a small desk - a young
     man's cocoon.

     Jake is on his bed, a sketch pad on his lap and his Caran
     d'Ache pencils next to him.

     The door opens. Brian comes in.

                         BRIAN
               Why don't you come help me prepare
               dinner?

                         JAKE
               Where's Mom?
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15            23.


                         BRIAN
               Your mother had an emergency with a
               patient. She's going to be late
               tonight.

                         JAKE
               Another suicide?

                         BRIAN
               Jake!


15   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/KITCHEN - NIGHT                  15

     Brian washes greens for the salad, as Jake enters.

                         JAKE
               Dad, I can't find my drawings.

                         BRIAN
               What drawings? Help me cut these.

     Brian hands Jake vegetables from the sink.

                         JAKE
               The series I made on Percy Jackson.
               The sea of monsters?

                         BRIAN
               Those old drawings?

     Jake starts cutting vegetables julienne style, very
     carefully.

                         JAKE
               Yes.

                         BRIAN
               Did you look in the trunk?

                         JAKE
               Yes, Dad. I looked. They're not
               there.

                         BRIAN
               I don't know, Jake. Maybe they got
               thrown away.

                         JAKE
               Why would you do that? They're my
               drawings!

                         BRIAN
               Why don't you just make new ones.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              24.


                         JAKE
               New ones are never like the old
               ones!

     Jake wishes he could strangle his dad right now. He's truly
     upset.

                         BRIAN
               Jake. We moved. We got rid of
               furniture. We threw away clothes,
               and we gave books away. We have a
               new apartment.

                           JAKE
               So?

                         BRIAN
               Listen. Let me tell you something.
               It's good to get rid of stuff. It's
               hard at first, but then it feels
               really good. You have to learn to
               let go.

     Jake keeps cutting the vegetables. He's so angry, it's hard
     not to chop the zucchini into a million pieces....


16   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/FAMILY AREA - NIGHT                16

     Brian and Jake are having dinner.

                         BRIAN
               I play Trigorin. He's a celebrated
               writer, and the boyfriend of a
               famous actress, Arkadina.

                         JAKE
               Why the weird names?

                         BRIAN
               Can I finish? Her son Konstantin is
               an aspiring writer who lives with
               his uncle Sorin in this dacha,
               where they all come together one
               summer to see his new play.

                           JAKE
               Finished?

                         BRIAN
               That's just the beginning,
               actually.
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15            25.


                          JAKE
                What's a dacha?

                          BRIAN
                A dacha is like a big country
                estate in Russia. That's where the
                whole thing takes place, and that's
                why the funny names. There's also
                Nina. She's the neighbors's
                daughter, who wants to be an
                actress. At first she seems to be
                in love with Konstantin but ends up
                having an affair with my character,
                Trigorin.

                          JAKE
                Sounds complicated.

                          BRIAN
                Well, it is complex. And
                unexpected. But it has a lot of
                humor in it too.

                             JAKE
                What part?

      The door opens, and Kathy comes in from work.

                          KATHY
                Good. You guys are already eating.

                             JAKE
                Hi Mom.

                          BRIAN
                How was it?

      Kathy drops her bag on a chair and goes to wash her hands
      before coming to join them at the table.

                          KATHY
                Fine. She's doing okay. The problem
                now is her husband.


16A   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/BATHROOM - NIGHT                     16A

      Kathy is washing her hands in the sink.

                          KATHY
                But the last thing I want to do
                right now is talk about work. I'm
                starving.
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15              26.


16B   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/FAMILY AREA - NIGHT               16B

      They're already having entrees, but the salad bowl is still
      on the table.

                          BRIAN
                I was just telling Jake about the
                play.

                          JAKE
                I thought you weren't working with
                the Terrain anymore. I thought you
                were going to do Broadway now.

      Kathy joins them and helps herself to a big plate.

                          BRIAN
                It's not that simple.

                           JAKE
                You said you weren't doing this non-
                profit stuff anymore. That the
                strategy was to reach "a wider
                audience".

                          BRIAN
                Well, things have changed.

                          KATHY
                Jake, you should applaud your
                father for being adaptable. That's
                what life is all about.

      Kathy's worn out. It's been a long day.


17    EXT. HERBERT VON KING PARK - DAY                          17

      A tree-filled park in the middle of a quiet Brooklyn
      neighborhood. On a grassy lawn, a GROUP OF BOYS, 12 to 15
      years old, are kicking a soccer ball into a goal. Two
      captains, UMAR and JOEY, are choosing one by one to form two
      teams.

      Tony rushes by on his scooter, fast. He avoids bumps - he
      knows the area by heart. As he approaches the group of boys,
      one of the boys tries to stop him.

                           UMAR
                Tony! Hey! Come play! We need one
                more here!
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15              27.


      But Tony doesn't stop, and now comes Jake behind on his
      ROLLER BLADES, trying to catch up. He's surprised by a bump
      on the road, makes a false move, and almost falls.

                          JOEY
                Oops! Watch out, Katy Perry!

      All the boys laugh. Jake is upset but keeps going, pretending
      he didn't hear anything.


17A   INT. JARDINE HOUSE/STAIRWELL - DAY                       17A

      The boys enter the foyer of an old NYC tenement apartment
      building. Tony carries his scooter, while Jake tries to take
      off his blades as fast as he can.

      They clomp up several flights.


18    INT. LEONOR'S APARTMENT - DAY                             18

      An old apartment, functional and in need of paint job. Modest
      furniture dominates the space, but there are a couple of eye
      catching art pieces; a large modernist painting and a
      striking sculpture. In a corner, there's a large bookshelf
      filled with books, but one corner has been turned into a bar
      with a few different types of glasses, and various liquor
      bottles.

      Leonor is in the living room preparing a drink next to HERNÀN
      ALONSO, Latin, early 60's, dressed in a suit and tie. He
      stands close to Leonor, and leans over to help her with the
      drink. At this very moment, Jake and Tony burst in through
      the door.

                          TONY
                    (out of breath)
                Eight minutes and twenty three
                seconds!

      He throws his scooter on the floor and runs to the kitchen.
      Jake stays by the door, polite, waiting to greet the elders,
      roller blades in hand.

                          LEONOR
                Hey! Hey! Hey!

                          TONY
                    (looking at his cellphone)
                A new record! Around the block and
                up the stairs in eight minutes and
                twenty three seconds!
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              28.


                    LEONOR
          Wow, I think you should call the
          Guinness Book.

                    TONY
          That's a great idea! I'll write
          them an email.

Tony grabs a glass and opens the refrigerator to get some
water.

                    JAKE
          Good evening, Mrs. Calvelli.

                    LEONOR
          Hi Jake.
              (to her son)
          You haven't said hello, Mister!

                    TONY
          Hello Hernàn. This is my friend
          Jacob Jardine. But we call him
          Jake.

                    HERNÀN
          Hello there, Jake.

                    TONY
          He used to live in Manhattan, but
          now he lives above Mami's store.
          Jake, this is Hernàn.

He finishes his glass of water, and runs to his room. Jake
stays alone with the adults.

                    HERNÀN
          Ah! So you are the Grandson-

                    LEONOR
              (cuts him off)
          Yes. Max was his grandfather. His
          father is Brian Jardine, the one
          that I told you about.

                    JAKE
          My father's an actor. And my mom is
          a psychotherapist.

                    HERNÀN
          I see. So how do you like Brooklyn
          so far?
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15             29.


                         JAKE
               I like it a lot. It's more peaceful
               than Manhattan, and we have much
               more space. It's great.

                         HERNÀN
               So Jake, are you going to be an
               actor, like your father?

                         JAKE
               I don't know.

                         HERNÀN
               But you look like an artist
               yourself. With that long hair and
               everything.

                         JAKE
               Maybe.

     This conversation is getting too deep for Jake. Leonor sees
     that he's uncomfortable, and helps him out.

                         LEONOR
               He'll tell us more later, right
               Jake? Go ahead.

     Jake runs inside Tony's room.


19   INT. LEONOR'S APARTMENT/TONY'S ROOM - DAY                 19

     Tony's room is typical teenager with a small bed, a desk with
     computer and posters of music and movies. Tony's on the bed,
     lost in thought. He's clearly been listening in on the
     conversation in the other room.

                         TONY
               Is your father any good at acting?

                         JAKE
               I don't know. Maybe.

                         TONY
               I thought if he was, I might have a
               conversation with him, cause I'm
               going to be an actor when I grow
               up. Maybe he can give me some
               pointers.

                         JAKE
               Sure, yeah. I guess. He's not that
               successful or anything.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15                 30.


Tony jumps off his bed and pulls open the drawers of his
desk.

                    TONY
          My dream is to go to the LaGuardia
          High School for the Performing
          Arts? You know that school? Nicki
          Minaj went there. And Al Pacino,
          but heflunked out.

                    JAKE
          I think my dad applied there.

                    TONY
          Really? It's my dream school. I'm
          looking around at some theater
          classes, and practicing on my own,
          so I can audition next year for
          ninth grade.

He pulls out a stack of plays from his drawer.

                    TONY (CONT'D)
          These are some of the scripts I'm
          working on. I'm going to need to
          practice a lot, and sometimes I
          might need a partner, okay?

                    JAKE
          But I'm not an actor.

                    TONY
          That's okay. You can read, can't
          you? Here look at this. This is a
          scene from Pariah, or the Outcast,
          by August Strindberg. It's perfect
          for us to work on, cause it's just
          two guys.

Jake takes the book tentatively, and flips through it.

                    TONY
          And you know what, if you practice
          your drawing more, and get better,
          maybe we could both go to
          LaGuardia. It's for all kinds of
          artists. It's very Bohemian.

Jake puts the script down, uncommitted.

                    JAKE
          I guess I can try.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              31.


                    TONY
          That's the spirit.

                    JAKE
          Is Hernàn your mom's boyfriend?

                    TONY
          Hernàn? Eww, gross. No. He's just a
          friend of her's from Chile. My mom
          is still married to my dad. They
          just don't live together much.

                    JAKE
          I don't understand.

                    TONY
          Me either! My dad travels a lot, so
          they are never together. He's a
          nurse, and he works for Doctors
          Without Borders, which is from what
          I can tell a job you get if you
          want free plane flights.

                    JAKE
          Where is he now?

                    TONY
          He's in Angola. That's in Africa.
          Until he was 20 he never left this
          neighborhood, and then once he left
          he barely ever came back. If I
          wasn't here I don't think he'd ever
          come back to Brooklyn.

Tony jumps up and goes to his desk.

                    TONY
          Look what he sent me.

He pulls a box from a shelf, full of books and CDs and stuff.

                    JAKE
          Do you miss having him around more?

                    TONY
          At first I did. But it's been a few
          years now, so I got used to it.

                    JAKE
          Sometimes my dad goes away, if he's
          shooting a movie. But it hasn't
          really happened in a while.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              32.


                    TONY
          Maybe he's not the guy I should
          talk to.

                    JAKE
          I don't know. He's been in a bunch
          of plays and stuff.

Tony is still looking... and he finally finds it.

                      TONY
          Found it!

He picks up a big book and drops it in Tony's lap.

                    TONY
          My dad and I are going to go on a
          safari, and these are just like
          some of the animals we are going to
          see.

Jake looks through pictures of African savannahs and animals.

                    JAKE
          Do you wish they still lived
          together?

                    TONY
          Sometimes. When my dad comes to
          visit, he'll cook Porcheta. It's
          like roast pork butt.

                      JAKE
          Ewww.

                     TONY
              (matter of fact)
          It's good.
              (pause)
          We sit at the table just the three
          of us, and he tells stories about
          his work and the places he's been,
          and stories about the different
          people he's met in Africa. Then it
          seems like normal. But then, pretty
          soon they start fighting about
          something stupid. And I realize
          it's better when he's not around.

                    JAKE
          Imagine if your mom goes with you
          on your safari, and they end up
          falling in love again.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                33.


                         TONY
               I think there's very little chance
               of that happening.

                         JAKE
               But just imagine: you get an
               envelope one day. You open it and
               it's two tickets to a safari. One
               for you, and one for your mom.
               And she decides to go, because she
               feels like she needs a vacation.
               So when you get to Africa, your dad
               picks you both up at the airport,
               and takes you to this incredible
               place. Like this photo here. You
               see lions and elephants, giraffes.
               And then, it's the end of a
               beautiful day in the African
               savannah. Your dad wants to take
               you up this big hill to see the
               sunset, but you're too tired, so
               you tell your parents you're going
               to rest in your hotel room.

                         TONY
               So they go the two of them alone.
               And when they get there, the colors
               of the sky are like nothing they've
               ever seen before...

                         JAKE
               A green sky with yellow stars...

     The door opens, with Leonor in an apron and a wooden spoon in
     hand.

                         LEONOR
               Who wants pasta primavera?

                         JAKE
               Yes!

     Jake jumps up and goes out running. Tony stays in for a
     moment, imagining...


20   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/BACKYARD - DAY                           20

     Jake and Tony and Audrey's son LIAM are kicking a soccer ball
     and running around the freshly cut grass and new plants - the
     yard has visibly improved since the old days, and the swing
     set has been removed.

     Brian prepares a grill, talking with his sister Audrey.
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15            34.


20A   INT. JARDINE HOUSE/STAIRWELL - DAY                          20A

      Tony and Jake come in from outside and run down the hall.


21    INT. CASA DE MODA/OFFICE - DAY                              21

      Leonor is sitting at her desk going through the store
      receipts and expenses with a calculator, taking notes on a
      notebook, and entering info in the computer. She is not happy
      doing this kind of work, the numbers make her frustrated.

      Leonor goes through the same papers one more time, re-
      entering the same numbers in the calculator when Tony and
      Jake storm into the office.

                          TONY
                Mami, can I stay for dinner with
                the Jardine's?

                           LEONOR
                Tony...

                          TONY
                Please Mami. They're having
                hamburgers.

                          JAKE
                And hot dogs.

                          LEONOR
                We have dinner at home. Besides, I
                can't come and pick you up later.
                And I don't like you walking home
                alone at night.

                          JAKE
                He can sleep over.

                          LEONOR
                    (to Jake)
                Have you talked to your father
                about this?

                          JAKE
                He won't mind.

                          LEONOR
                Are you sure?

                          TONY
                Please, Mami.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              35.


22   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/BACKYARD - DAY                         22

     Brian and Audrey, holding chilled glasses of white wine,
     continue their conversation around the grill, when Jake comes
     running and interrupts.

                            JAKE
               Dad!

                            BRIAN
               Yes, Jake?

                         JAKE
               Can Tony sleep over tonight?

     Brian now sees Leonor and Tony approaching also.

                         BRIAN
               Well, hello Leonor.

                         LEONOR
               Sorry to interrupt, Brian.

                         BRIAN
               No, please, you're not... You've
               met my sister Audrey, haven't you?

                         LEONOR
               Yes, of course.

                         AUDREY
               Hi Leonor. Long time no see.

                         LEONOR
               Jake is asking if Tony can stay for
               dinner-

                         JAKE
               And a sleep-over!

                         LEONOR
               Yes, because after dinner it would
               be too late for him to walk home
               alone.

                         BRIAN
               Tony, do you want to have
               hamburgers and hot dogs with us
               tonight?

                            TONY
               Yes!
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              36.


                    BRIAN
          Done deal, bro.

He shakes hands with Tony. Tony and Jake go running to play
in the grass.

                    LEONOR
              (to Brian)
          I just wanted to make sure with
          you...

                    BRIAN
          Please. I can't tell you how happy
          I am that Jake has a new friend. He
          spends too much time alone. And
          it's not easy for him with other
          boys. So it's great that he and
          Tony get along so well.

Leonor doesn't respond.

                    BRIAN
          You've got a great kid, but I guess
          you know that.

                       LEONOR
          Thank you.

                    AUDREY
          Leonor, do you want some wine?

Leonor considers for a moment.

                    AUDREY
          Brian and I wanted to have a talk
          with you anyway, about some things,
          so maybe this is a good time.

                    LEONOR
          No, thank you. I have to go back
          and finish some stuff at the
          office.

                    AUDREY
          We'd love a minute with you if
          that's ok. Right, Brian?

The kids fall on the grass running after the ball.

                    AUDREY
          Liam, watch out! Your cousin is
          smaller than you!
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15             37.


                         LEONOR
               I have to go. But thank you.

                         BRIAN
               You know, Leonor, after my father
               died, there was so much to do. We
               decided to move in, and time just
               flew by. You and I haven't really
               had a chance to talk about the
               store, and all that stuff. Maybe we
               can have a chat this week?

                         LEONOR
               This week is not good for me. I'm
               doing inventory.

                            BRIAN
               Next week?

                            LEONOR
               Could be.

     Brian gets his iPhone out, checking his calendar.

                         BRIAN
               Thursday I finish rehearsal early,
               so I could come by early afternoon.

                            LEONOR
               Sure.

                            BRIAN
               Great.


23   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/BACKYARD - NIGHT                       23

     Dinner is served. There are garden lights, flowers on the
     table, chilled wine. Kathy has joined them, in her usual work
     clothes, as has James, Audrey's husband.

                         AUDREY
               Truth is, the neighborhood is
               changing and that's a very old-
               fashioned store.

                         BRIAN
               C'mon guys! The burgers are getting
               cold.

                         KATHY
               She complained to me that business
               wasn't so good.
                   Shooting Script 07/27/15             38.


Jake and Tony approach the table. The adults continue their
conversation in a hushed tone, once the boys are at the
table.

                    BRIAN
          Of course she's going to say that.
          Contract is up.

                    AUDREY
          My guy told me that a similar space
          in the area is going for five
          thousand.

                    KATHY
          What??

                    JAKE
          Can I have mine with cheese,
          mustard and ketchup, please?

                    KATHY
          That's crazy.

                    BRIAN
          Guests first. What do you want on
          yours, Tony?

                    TONY
          Cheese, onions, avocado. And
          ketchup, please.

                    AUDREY
          That's in the low numbers.

                    TONY
          And mayonnaise.

                    KATHY
          Scary.

                    BRIAN
          Jake, have some salad also.

                    JAKE
          I'll have some afterwards.

                    BRIAN
          Tony, salad?

                    TONY
          No thank you, Mr. J. Is that
          alright if I call you that?
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15                39.


                          KATHY
                And what is the number now?

                          BRIAN
                Sure, Tony. That's fine.

                          AUDREY
                One something. For eight years,
                never an increase.

                          BRIAN
                Maybe we should talk about this
                later?

      Kathy agrees, shaking her head.

                          KATHY
                So Tony, I hear your dad lives in
                Africa.

                          TONY
                In Angola. It's an old Portuguese
                colony in Africa. I wrote a paper
                on it last year at school, and got
                an B plus, which was pretty good,
                cause I only spent about an hour on
                it. Sometimes at my school the
                teachers are whack cause they give
                you good grades for the things you
                don't try hard on, and bad grades
                for the things you do.

      Everyone is enjoying Tony, who is making himself very
      comfortable.

                          TONY
                Can you pass the ketchup, Mr. J?
                I've always liked a lot of ketchup.

      The big family, eating dinner in the garden, under the
      hanging lights.


23A   INT. JARDINE HOUSE/STAIRWELL                               23A

      The boys come racing down the interior stairwell of the
      building, skates and scooters in hand.


24    OMITTED                                                     24
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15              40.


24A   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - DAY                    24A

      Wide shot of house as Jake finishes putting on his skates,
      and then follows Tony on his scooter down the sidewalk.




25    EXT. BROOKLYN STREET - DAY                                   25

      The boys roll down the sidewalk of a busy Brooklyn shopping
      street.

      They cross a busy intersection. Jake trips on a bump, nearly
      falling, but catches himself in time.


26    INT. ACTING OUT TALENT ACADEMY/LOBBY - DAY                   26

      Tony and Jake come in, sweaty and out of breath, looking
      around, not sure of where to go. A receptionist, LINDA, sits
      at a table full of fliers and a computer.

                          LINDA
                Hi, can I help you guys?

                          TONY
                We're here for the acting class.

                          LINDA
                We have quite a few. Do you mean
                the Breakthrough Class?

                          TONY
                Yes. That one.

                          LINDA
                Well, it's twenty dollars for the
                first class. But you can buy a
                package of twenty classes for three
                hundred.

                          TONY
                    (to Jake)
                Got cash, buddy?

      Jake and Tony empty their pockets. Tony counts all their
      money together. There's ten dollars between them. Jake finds
      one more. Eleven.

                          TONY
                Oops, sorry. Hmm. What's your name?
           Shooting Script 07/27/15   41.


          LINDA
My name is Linda. What's yours?

          TONY
Tony. And this is my friend Jake.

            LINDA
Hi guys.

          TONY
What is your sign?

            LINDA
My sign?

          TONY
Of the zodiac. But no. Let me
guess.

            LINDA
Go ahead.

          TONY
You're a Leo.

          LINDA
How did you know??

          TONY
Leos are very confident. You seem
very sure of yourself.

          LINDA
Wow. I'm impressed.

          TONY
Linda, I'm going to be honest with
you. My friend and I heard this
place was the best acting school in
the area, and we would love to
check it out. To see if we want to
make the investment. Can you make
us a discount?

          LINDA
Like I told you. If you buy a
package of twenty, you get a
discount.

          TONY
They also say Leos are very
generous.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                 42.


                         LINDA
               Comes down to fifteen bucks a
               class.

                         TONY
               Well maybe you can help with
               something else.

                           LINDA
               Sure.

                         TONY
               Maybe you can give me some
               directions?

                           LINDA
               Where to?

                         TONY
               To your heart.

     The receptionist is taken by surprise by the flirtatious
     joke. She laughs.

                         LINDA
               You're too much. Go in. But only
               this time. And don't tell anyone.

     Tony and Jake start past her, towards the classrooms.

                         TONY
               Thank you, Linda. You won't regret
               it!

                          LINDA
                   (calling out)
               Down the hall to the last door on
               the right.


27   INT. ACTING OUT TALENT ACADEMY/CLASSROOM - DAY               27

     Two girls, JULIA (14) and SALLY(13), are standing facing each
     other in the middle of the room, surrounded by a dozen more
     kids sitting in chairs, Jake and Tony, and EVA (also 14)
     among them.

     There is a moment of silence, and then the ACTING TEACHER
     starts to talk.

                         ACTING TEACHER
               The first thing is to really look
               at somebody, and just talk and
               listen, listen and talk.
                         (MORE)
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15        43.

                    ACTING TEACHER (CONT'D)
          Not to act. The genesis of acting
          is seeing. Yes? That's the first
          thing. The raw material of all
          acting is seeing, observing,
          understanding what makes behavior.
          I would say pay attention! So when
          we start doing the repetition
          exercise, that person does it to
          you; you just react. Whereas a lot
          of actors make it happen. Yes? But
          that's not acting. That's pushing,
          whereas you should just be relaxed.

The kids are listening, intently, taking it in.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          Does that make sense?

No one answers.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          Okay, let's begin.

Julia looks at Sally. Sally returns the look.

                    JULIA
          You're wearing a pretty shirt.

                    SALLY
          I'm wearing a pretty shirt.

                    JULIA
          You're wearing a pretty shirt.

                    SALLY
          Do you like my shirt?

The teacher interrupts, abruptly.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          NO! No questions. Observations.
          Let's start again.

Pause as the girls re-group.

                    SALLY
          You have a little nose.

The other kids laugh.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          Quiet! Concentrate.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15     44.


                    SALLY
          You have a little nose.

                    JULIA
          I have a little nose.

                    SALLY
          You have a little nose.

                    JULIA
          Alright, I have a little nose.

                    SALLY
          You have a little nose.

                    JULIA
          I have a little nose.

                    SALLY
          You seem a little bothered.

                    JULIA
          I seem a little bothered.

                    SALLY
          Yes. You seem a little bothered.

                    JULIA
          You're getting a kick out of that.

                    SALLY
          I'm getting a kick out of that.

                    JULIA
          Well don't get offended.

                    SALLY
          I'm not getting offended.

                    JULIA
          You are acting like a baby.

                    SALLY
          I'm acting like a baby.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          Ok. Ok. Stop. That was okay. It
          could be better. Yes? Back to your
          seats.

He turns and looks at Jake.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          You. Look at me. Don't move.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              45.


Jake squirms, as if he's been caught.

                      ACTING TEACHER
          Stand up.

Jake reluctantly stands.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          We've got to keep the contact.
          We've got to keep the repetition.
          The contact comes from my behavior.
          Not just what I say, but what I do.

Jake looks for help from Tony.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          Look at me. Now tell me something
          you observed on your way here
          today.

                    JAKE
          I almost fell.

Laughter from the other kids.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          You almost fell.

                    JAKE
          I almost fell crossing the Parkway.

                    ACTING TEACHER
              (to the class)
          You see he didn't do it. What was I
          saying?

                    JAKE
          I'm sorry I don't understand.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          You don't need to understand.
          Acting is not understanding. It's
          feeling. It's reacting. Does that
          make sense? Look at me. Listen to
          me.

Jake looks at him intently, trying to do the right thing.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          What did I say without words? What
          did my behavior say? Now say it
          again.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15        46.


                    JAKE
          I'm sorry, say what again?

                    ACTING TEACHER
          That you fell.

                    JAKE
          You want me to say again that I
          fell?

                    ACTING TEACHER
          Yes.

                    JAKE
          With words?

                    ACTING TEACHER
          Yes, with words!

                    JAKE
          I almost fell on my way to class
          today.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          You fell on your way to class
          today.

                    JAKE
          I almost fell on my way to class
          today.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          You fell on your way to class
          today.

                    JAKE
          You're not listening to me.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          I'm not listening to you.

                    JAKE
          You're not listening to me.

Jake is getting more and more upset. Emotional.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          I'm not listening.

                    JAKE
          You're not listening.

                    ACTING TEACHER
          I'm not listening.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              47.


                         JAKE
                   (on the verge of crying)
               You're not listening.

                         ACTING TEACHER
               Good! That's it. Good. Do you all
               see the difference? Yes?




     Tony is smiling, beaming. He's in his element.


28   EXT. HERBERT VON KING PARK/AMPHITHEATER - DAY             28

     The group of guys and girls seen inside the acting school are
     now hanging out in the amphitheater of a City Park. Jake and
     Tony, are among them - the youngest in the group.

                         TONY
               Hey, I know you from St. Grace,
               right?

                         JULIA
               Yeah, I used to go there. I go to
               Humanities Prep now, in Manhattan.

                         TONY
               Oh, la di da.

                         EVA
               We all went to St. Grace. There
               were some crazy people in that
               school. Julia, you remember Mr.
               Clay?

                         JULIA
               How could I forget Mr. Clay? That
               hair!

     She imitates with her hand.

                         JULIA
               Three hairs came from the bottom in
               the back and somehow they ended
               spreading like a wig in front. Does
               he still do it?

                         TONY
               Yeah. Only difference is now that
               he's older, he does it with two
               hairs, instead of three.
                   Shooting Script 07/27/15             48.


They laugh. The older kids are warming up to Tony.

                    EVA
          I never even noticed his hair.

                    JULIA
          How could you not?

                    EVA
          Mr. Clay was the first love of my
          life. I was completely obsessed
          with him.

                    ALL
          Eeeewwww!!!

                    EVA
          I used to fantasize about kissing
          him all the time.

                    JULIA
          Gross!

Laughter. Tony laughs the loudest.

                    EVA
          Did you ever see his body? Hello??
          He used to play volleyball with us.
          In the summer he'd take his shirt
          off. He was as hairy as an ape. I
          loved it.

Everybody is laughing together, but Jake, who's not quite
fitting in.

                    JULIA
          So Jake, you were pretty good in
          class today. That was a tough
          exercise.

She makes him a little nervous.

                    JAKE
          I don't know.

                    TONY
          Jake's going to be an artist when
          he grows up.

                    SALLY
          Are you? What's your medium?
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              49.


                         JAKE
               I paint, but you need to have
               something special to be a painter,
               and I'm not so sure I've got it.

                         TONY
               You just need to believe in
               yourself a little bit. That's all.
                   (to the girls)
               My friend has a little problem with
               his confidence. But we're working
               on that. Right, Jake?

     He winks at Jake, as the girls look on.

                         TONY
               Hey, who wants to do the repeat
               game with me? I need to practice.

                         SALLY
                   (taking the bait)
               Who wants to do the repeat game
               with me?

                         TONY
                   (imitating the teacher)
               No questions!!

     Tony runs on to the stage of the ampitheater, and begins to
     imitate the teacher.

                         EVA
               No questions!!

                         TONY
               Look at me! Listen to me! Acting is
               not understanding! You don't need
               to understand. Does that make
               sense? Yes? Yes? Yes?

     Julia, Jake and the rest of the kids are watching, amused.


29   EXT. ST. GRACE'S SCHOOL/SPORTS FIELD - DAY                   29

     The sports field at St. Grace's Catholic School, where Tony
     and his soccer group -- including UMAR and JOEY -- are
     playing soccer. They're serious about their game,
     concentrated, running around, sweating and fighting for the
     ball. Tony is the GOALIE.
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15           50.


30   INT. ST. GRACE'S SCHOOL/CAFETERIA - DAY                   30

     The school cafeteria at lunch time, filled with hungry BOYS
     and GIRLS sitting in common tables, sharing a meal. ALL THE
     KIDS ARE IN SCHOOL UNIFORMS.

     Our SOCCER BOYS, accompanied by a couple of POPULAR GIRLS,
     including LIZZIE, the most popular, form a line by the food
     counter, getting some food.

                         TONY
               Hey Umar, you should try that thing
               that the Brazilian does, Felipe
               Melo. You look to one player but
               you pass the ball to the other
               side.

                         UMAR
               We could try it if you played with
               us more often.

                         TONY
               I don't know what you're talking
               about.

     They head to the tables with their trays.

                         UMAR
               You didn't show up last Saturday.

                         JOEY
               It's because Tony has a new
               boyfriend now!

     The boys whistle and scream, teasingly, and the girls laugh
     too. Tony blushes, angry.

                          TONY
               Yeah, ask your sister if she thinks
               I'm the type to have a boyfriend.
               She knows.

     Oohss! and laughter from some other boys.

                         JOEY
               My cousin Allen goes to 321.

                           TONY
               So what?

                         JOEY
               That's his school, isn't it?
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              51.


                         TONY
               What are you talking about?

                         UMAR
               Roller girl.

                         JOEY
               Little Jake. My cousin goes to his
               school. They say he's a weirdo.

                         TONY
               Shut up, Joey!

                         JOEY
               My cousin says he draws dresses for
               the girls during recess.

     Tony places his backpack on the floor and grabs the hamburger
     on Joey's plate.

                         JOEY
               Hey! Give that back to me!

     Tony licks the bun all over, before putting it back on Joey's
     plate.

                         TONY
               There you are. Eat it.

     Joey grabs Tony's burrito, and swings it around in the air
     like an airplane.

                         TONY
               Give that back!


     He doesn't, provoking even more, so Tony hits Joey hard with
     a punch. The girls scream. Joey responds with a push. Tony
     almost falls for a second, but he gains his strength and
     dives forward to punch Joey. He is held back by the other
     boys, while some of them shout to actually heat up the fight.


31   INT. CASA DE MODA/STORE - DAY                                31

     Bianca, the salesgirl, is standing in the front of the store,
     waiting for an eventual customer, when Jake comes into the
     store.

                         BIANCA
               Can I help you?

                         JAKE
               No thank you.
                         Shooting Script 07/27/15             52.


      Jake goes directly to the back.

      Leonor is sewing. Jake walks by on his way to the office.

                             JAKE
                Hi Leonor.

                          LEONOR
                Wait, wait. Where do you think
                you're going?

                          JAKE
                Is Tony in the office?

                          LEONOR
                He is, and he's staying there. He's
                helping me out today.

                          JAKE
                But we're supposed to meet some
                friends.

                          LEONOR
                Are those the same friends that
                beat him up?

                             JAKE
                What??

                          LEONOR
                That's right. They beat him up. You
                should ask him why.


31A   INT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA/STAIRWELL - DAY             31A

      Jake walks through the maze of rooms and hallways behind the
      store.


32    INT. CASA DE MODA/OFFICE - DAY                              32

      Tony is entering numbers in the computer, copying them from a
      spreadsheet next to him. He has a band-aid covering a bruise
      on his forehead.

      Jake enters.

                             TONY
                Hey.

                          JAKE
                    (sees the bruise)
                What happened??
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                53.


                         TONY
               Nothing. I bumped into Joey at
               soccer.

                         JAKE
               But your mom--

                         TONY
               She's so dramatic, she deserves an
               Academy Award. She doesn't want me
               to go out so I can help her with
               this. Look.

     He shows Jake a spreadsheet of numbers.

                         TONY
               She's terrible with numbers, you
               know. You go ahead. I'll come find
               you as soon as I finish here.


33   INT. OFF BROADWAY THEATER - DAY                             33

     Brian and two actresses, playing the roles of NINA and
     ARKADINA, are rehearsing on a stage of a small theater.

     For now, there's just some old blankets and a small bench.
     Brian sits on the bench, "writing" something on a non-
     existant notebook. Nina sits on a blanket with pillows next
     to him.

                         NINA
               What are you writing?

                         BRIAN/TRIGORIN
               Nothing much, only an idea that
               occurred to me
                   (puts "book" in his
                    pocket)
               An idea for a short story. A young
               girl grows up on the shores of a
               lake, as you have.

     Brian/Trigorin looks away, towards "the lake".

                         BRIAN/TRIGORIN (CONT'D)
               She loves the lake as the gulls do,
               and is as happy and free as they
               are. But a man sees her who happens
               to come that way, and he destroys
               her out of idleness, as this
               seagull here has been destroyed.

     A pause. Arkadina enters, but remains at a distance.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                 54.


                         ARKADINA
               Boris! Where are you?

                         BRIAN/TRIGORIN
               I am coming this minute.

     Brian gets up and walks towards Arkadina.

                         BRIAN/TRIGORIN
               What do you want?

                         ARKADINA
               We are not going away, after all.

     Brian/Trigorin embraces Arkadina, while Nina gets up and
     stands up front stage, lost in thought.

                         NINA
               It is a dream!

     A pause. It's the end of the scene. A DIRECTOR approaches the
     stage from the orchestra.

                         DIRECTOR
               Okay. Let's try this one more time.
               And Brian, when you mention the
               dead seagull, don't look away from
               Nina.

     An ASSISTANT comes to give the Director a script.

                         BRIAN
               More seductive, you mean.

                         DIRECTOR
               Exactly. You're very myopic. You
               have an obsession with the details
               of things, of people. And in this
               scene you're fully focused on Nina.
               You're like a razor beam.




34   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - NIGHT                      34

     Brian comes walking down the street, a messenger bag around
     his torso, coming back from rehearsal. He approaches the
     house, and sees something that makes him pick up speed.

     Leonor is outside, smoking a cigarette.

                         LEONOR
               Brian. I was waiting.
                           Shooting Script 07/27/15            55.


                            BRIAN
                 I'm so sorry. Rehearsal went later
                 than I expected. Is this still a
                 good time?

                           LEONOR
                 Yes. I sent the girl home early so
                 we could talk. You want to go
                 inside? I'm just going to finish
                 this.


35   INT. CASA DE MODA/STORE - NIGHT                             35

     Brian   is inside the store. He looks around, not sure where to
     place   himself. It gets darker and a loud `bang' is heard. The
     metal   shutter has been pulled down to close the store. Leonor
     comes   in.

                           BRIAN
                 The store looks nice.

                           LEONOR
                 Thanks. I did a lot of work here.

                           BRIAN
                 The reason why I'm here, Leonor...

                            LEONOR
                 I know.

                           BRIAN
                 Your lease has been expired for
                 more than six months now. I guess
                 you guys were about to renew it
                 when my father passed?

                           LEONOR
                 Brian, why don't you sit down.

     They go towards the back of the store. Leonor sits behind her
     desk/sewing machine, Brian in front of her. He opens his
     messenger bag, and takes out a brown envelope.

                           BRIAN
                 My sister and I are working on the
                 transfer of ownership for the
                 house. It's almost done; Dad left
                 everything in order, all the taxes
                 paid and all that. The only thing
                 still pending is the store, which
                 needs to have a new lease.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15             56.


                    LEONOR
          You know, your father never thought
          much about contracts. He was very
          happy to have me here. Max thought
          my store gave "glamour" to the
          neighborhood, and he was proud to
          be associated.

                     BRIAN
          The situation has changed, and now
          we have two families owning the
          house; mine and Audrey's. It's
          better for us, and for you, to have
          things done the right way, wouldn't
          you agree?

                    LEONOR
          It depends on what the right way is
          for you.

                    BRIAN
          Leonor, this neighborhood is
          changing very fast. The rents have
          gone up quite a lot in the past few
          years. I'm sure you've noticed.

                    LEONOR
          Yes, I noticed and so did Max. But
          it was his desire that I stay here.

                    BRIAN
          We don't want you to go away. My
          sister Audrey has prepared a new
          lease for you, and we think it's
          very fair. We aren't trying to get
          market rate here, we know that's
          not possible, but still, you can't
          expect to pay the same rent you
          paid when you first moved in.

Brian pulls some papers out of his bag.

                    BRIAN
          Here, why don't you take a look.

                    LEONOR
          Before we go any further with this
          conversation, I want you to take a
          look at this.

Leonor opens a drawer, and takes out a small pile of
photographs. She hands them to Brian.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              57.


                    LEONOR
          I am probably the last person to
          have photos printed, the old
          fashioned way. It's completely
          different than seeing them on a
          cellphone, don't you agree?

Brian looks through the photos. Leonor looks over his
shoulder.

                    LEONOR
          That's me in the backyard, on July
          4th. That's me and Tony and your
          father at the Fair of St.
          Anthony's. That's us with my
          family, when they were visiting.
          Your father and I were very good
          friends. We spent a lot of time
          together. What you and your sister
          don't understand is that Max wanted
          me to stay here. He thought of me
          as part of this house, this
          neighborhood.

He returns the photos to Leonor.

                    LEONOR
          I was more his family, if you want
          to know, than you were.

                    BRIAN
          That's a ridiculous thing to say.

                    LEONOR
          You hardly talked to each other.
          You never came to visit. I was the
          one here. I saw him everyday.

                    BRIAN
          This is not what I came here for.
          Why don't we go back to the lease.
          Take a look, please. It's fair.

                    LEONOR
          No, I don't need to. I have an idea
          what you and your sister have in
          mind. I'll just give this to my
          lawyer because, to be honest with
          you, Brian, I'm not sure I owe you
          anything. Maybe it's the other way
          around.

Brian is speechless, sideswiped by Leonor's intensity and
conviction.
                         Shooting Script 07/27/15            58.


                         BRIAN
               Well, I guess there's not that much
               more to be said then.

                            LEONOR
               No.

     Brian walks to the door, and out.

                         BRIAN
               Goodnight, Leonor.

     Leonor says nothing.


36   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT                   36

     Kathy is setting the table. Brian enters and walks through
     without stopping.

                         KATHY
               Brian. Want to help me out here?

                         BRIAN
               Sure, but just give me a moment.

                         KATHY
               What's wrong?

                         BRIAN (O.S.)
               Is Jake here?


37   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/JAKE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT                37

     Jake and Tony are playing a video game when Brian comes in.

                            JAKE
               Hi Dad!

                            TONY
               Hi, Mr. J.

                         BRIAN
                   (angry)
               Jake, you know it's a weekday. What
               are you doing playing video games?!

                         JAKE
               Can Tony stay and eat with us?

                           BRIAN
                     (harsh)
               No.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                59.


     They stop playing, and look at Brian with surprise.

                         JAKE
               Why not? He wanted to ask you about
               your acting career.

                         BRIAN
               That's enough for tonight. Turn it
               off.

                         JAKE
               Dad, c'mon!

                            BRIAN
               I said no.

                         TONY
               We're about to finish the level.

                         BRIAN
               Tony, you need to go home now. We
               can talk about acting another time.

     Brian notices the boys are getting uncomfortable.

                         TONY
               Sure, Mr. J.

                         BRIAN
                   (to Tony, softening)
               I'm sorry, buddy. Your mother is
               waiting for you downstairs.

     Brian makes a quick exit, shutting the door behind him.

     The boys look at each other, unsure of what to do.


38   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/BATHROOM - NIGHT                      38

     Water is pouring from the shower. Brian, naked inside the
     glass, tests the temperature with his hand carefully. He
     adjusts the temperature one bit more, and finally goes under
     the shower.

     Brian takes a deep breath in, and a deep breath out as the
     water rains down on him, hoping it will wash off his
     apprehensions.


39   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT                   39

     Jake, with a backpack, and Tony are in the middle of a
     conversation with Kathy.
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15              60.


                          KATHY
                Did you ask your mother?

                          TONY
                She loves when Jake comes over.

                          JAKE
                Please, Mom? Please?

                          KATHY
                Jake I just made dinner.

                          JAKE
                I'll eat it tomorrow for lunch, I
                promise.

                          KATHY
                Okay. But I want you back here in
                the morning.

                          JAKE
                Yes! Thanks.

                          TONY
                Thank you, Mrs. Jardine.

      They run out of the apartment...


39A   INT. JARDINE HOUSE/STAIRWELL - NIGHT                     39A

      ... and down the stairwell, and out the front door, slamming
      it behind them.


40    EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - NIGHT                   40

      Outside the house, Leonor is closing the gate to her store,
      talking to Tony. Jake stands by watching, withdrawn by the
      tone of the conversation.

                          LEONOR
                No, Antonio.

                          TONY
                C'mon, Mami. We have spaghetti in
                the fridge.

                          LEONOR
                When I say no I mean it. Don't ask
                me again.
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15              61.


                          TONY
                But we're going to be super quiet!
                Aren't we, Jake?

                          JAKE
                Yes we are.

                          LEONOR
                Antonio. No. Listen to me and don't
                argue.

                          JAKE
                It's okay Tony. I'll see you
                tomorrow.

      Leonor begins to walk away.

                          LEONOR
                Goodnight, Jake.

                          JAKE
                Goodnight, Mrs. Calvelli.

      Tony reluctantly follows his mom, then turns towards Jake.

                          TONY
                See you tomorrow.

                          JAKE
                Yeah, see you tomorrow.


40A   INT. JARDINE HOUSE/STAIRWELL - NIGHT                     40A

      Jake enters the dark stairwell. He stands by himself for a
      moment to collect his thoughts, before heading up to his
      family's apartment.


41    OMITTED                                                      41


41A   EXT. BROOKLYN NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT                       41A

      A few shots of Brooklyn at night. The streets are quiet. A
      car passes. It's that hour when anyone who's still up maybe
      shouldn't be.


42    OMITTED                                                      42


43    OMITTED                                                      43
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15           62.


44   EXT. HERBERT VON KING PARK - DAY                          44

     Jake rolls through the park on his roller blades. He arrives
     at the sport's field, and stays on the edge, observing the
     activity of the players.

     Half the kids are without shirts, playing against the other
     team, with shirts. They're running and kicking the ball,
     sweaty, screaming at each other, throwing themselves at the
     ball. Jake sees Tony, playing goalie, and walks towards him.

     They talk as Tony continues to pay attention to game.

                         TONY
               I'm not talking to my mother
               anymore.

                           JAKE
               Why not?

                         TONY
               She said you can't come over to our
               place. It's not right.

                         JAKE
               Why doesn't she want me over?

                         TONY
               I don't think your father wants me
               around very much anymore either. He
               might be too chicken to come out
               and say it, but I can tell.

                         JAKE
               Why are they so mad at us?

                         TONY
               Our parents are involved in a
               business matter and it's getting
               ugly. So they're taking it out on
               us.

                         JAKE
               You're right. My dad was very cold
               to you.

                         TONY
               You'd think I was the enemy.

                         JAKE
               I won't talk to my parents either
               then.

     The opponents head towards Tony and the goal.
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15           63.


                           TONY
               Really?

                         JAKE
               Really. Not unless they apologize.

                         UMAR
               Tony! C'mon!! Are you playing or
               what?

     Tony looks at Jake.

                         TONY
               You sure you can handle it? It
               won't be easy.

                         JAKE
               Of course I can handle it.

     Tony returns his focus to the game.

                         TONY
               You're a great friend, Jake.

                           JAKE
               You too.


45   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/JAKE'S BEDROOM - DAY                  45

     Jake is sitting at his desk, working on his drawings.

                           BRIAN
               Hey.

     Jake's eyes remain glued to his drawing.

                         BRIAN
               Did something happen with Leonor
               downstairs?

     Jake looks at his father, but doesn't say anything.

                         BRIAN
               The store is closed. It's not even
               five yet.

     Jake shrugs his shoulders, turns his attention back to the
     paper.

                         BRIAN
               Have you seen Tony?

     Another shrug.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                64.


                         BRIAN
               Jake, can you stop playing around
               for a second??

     Jake stops.

                         BRIAN
               Did you see if the store was open
               earlier when you got home?

     Jake shakes his head yes.

                         BRIAN
               Was it open?

     Jake shakes his head no.

                         BRIAN
               No? It wasn't?

     Brian's cell phone starts ringing.

                         BRIAN
               Talk to me Jake!

     Jake looks at his dad, but doesn't say anything. Brian,
     resigned, picks up his phone.

                         BRIAN
                   (on the phone)
               Audrey. Hi.

     Jake watches as his father walks towards the door, and out,
     talking on the phone.

                          BRIAN
                   (on the phone)
               No, I haven't heard from her. (...)
               Today I got home early and the
               store was closed, it's strange.
               (...) Isn't it better if you call
               her? (...)

     Jake goes back to his drawing.


46   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/LIVING AREA - NIGHT                  46

     Dinner time at the Jardine's; the meal in progress.

     Kathy and Brian are in the midst of a discussion, as Jake
     takes a seat at his usual spot.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              65.


                    KATHY
          It's not your fault.

                    BRIAN
          But I feel very responsible. We are
          responsible.

                    KATHY
          Audrey will tell you if she thinks
          you owe her money. Don't worry
          about it.

                    BRIAN
          She sort of did already.

                    KATHY
          What?

                     BRIAN
          She told me we owe her money for
          the store.

                    KATHY
          Incredible.

Kathy can't believe this.

                    BRIAN
          Yes, I know.

                    KATHY
          Jake. Did you see Leonor today?

Jake, shakes his head no, and sits down at the table.

                    KATHY
          Ah. Still not talking.

                    BRIAN
          No.

She hands Jake the bowl of salad.

                    KATHY
          You know, you can't go on with this
          forever.

Jake starts helping himself.

                    KATHY
              (to Brian)
          Have you seen Jake's latest
          artwork?
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15             66.


                         BRIAN
               No.

                         KATHY
               He's been doing a lot of
               mythological stuff.

                         BRIAN
               Is that inspired by that book I
               gave you?

     Jake swings his head side to side: more or less.

                         BRIAN
               The Blood of Olympus.

     Jake swings his head again, more emphatically: more or less,
     I said.

                         KATHY
               Truth is, if he's really serious
               about applying to LaGuardia, he's
               going to need to start preparing a
               serious portfolio, no?

                         BRIAN
               Yes. From what I remember, only 2%
               of the students who apply to
               LaGuardia get accepted. This means
               two out of a hundred. Twenty out of
               a thousand. They're not just
               looking for talent; they're looking
               for serious commitment.

                         KATHY
               And you famously flunked.

                         BRIAN
               I didn't "flunk"!

     Kathy laughs. Jake also. Brian doesn't find it funny.

                          BRIAN
               I wasn't accepted, which is
               different.


47   INT. CASA DE MODA/STORE - DAY                                47

     Bianca, the salesgirl, is rearranging clothes on the large
     display table up front when Kathy comes in.

                         KATHY
               Hello.
                    Shooting Script 07/27/15            67.


                    BIANCA
          Hi. Can I help you with anything?

                     KATHY
          Thanks. I'm looking for Leonor. Oh,
          I see her.

Leonor is behind the sewing machine in the back of the store,
fixing a pair of palazzo pants.

                       KATHY
          Hi Leonor.

                    LEONOR
          Hi. Just a second, let me just me
          finish this.

Kathy sits on a chair across from her, and waits for her to
finish sewing. Leonor pulls the pants away from the machine,
and breaks the thread with her teeth.

                    LEONOR
          You're home early.

                       KATHY
          Monday.

                    LEONOR
          Right. Your day off. Oh, you have
          to see this new dress. Bianca, show
          her the new dress! The green one.

Leonor puts another pair of pants on the machine, and starts
sewing.

Bianca picks up a green dress from the racks. Kathy,
politely, goes to check it out.

                    BIANCA
          Remember the original wrap dress,
          the first one that Diane von
          Furstenberg made?

                    KATHY
          Of course. Wow, that's an original?

                    BIANCA
          No, we found this fabric, it's
          vintage fabric. And Leonor made the
          dress herself.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              68.


                    KATHY
          It's beautiful. Wow. But it's
          really not my style. Thank you. I
          need to talk to Leonor.

Kathy approaches the back of the store again. This time
Leonor keeps concentrated on her sewing job, and doesn't stop
to talk.

                    KATHY
          Cute dress.

                    LEONOR
          I made it. The fabric is vintage.

                    KATHY
          Yes. I really like it, but I can't
          wear anything too tight on the
          waist these days. I need to lose a
          few pounds first.

Leonor keeps sewing. Kathy looks around the store. She
clearly wants to say something, but Leonor avoids any eye
contact.

                    KATHY
          Leonor, do you have a minute?

                    LEONOR
          I have to finish this for a client
          tonight.

                    KATHY
          Tony is still not talking?

                    LEONOR
          No. Not a word to me yesterday.

                    KATHY
          Same with Jake.

                    LEONOR
          It's very annoying.

                    KATHY
          The one good thing, I have to say,
          is that Jake has been drawing and
          painting more than ever.

                    LEONOR
          Is that good?
                    Shooting Script 07/27/15            69.


                    KATHY
          Yes! If he really wants to apply to
          LaGuardia, he needs to prepare a
          portfolio. Is Tony still planning
          on applying also?

                    LEONOR
          How would I know? It's been four
          days and he hasn't said a word to
          me.

                    KATHY
          Listen, Leonor, you know that I'm
          trained in conflict resolution, so
          I'm hoping I can help here, help
          settle this problem between you and
          our family.

                    LEONOR
          Oh really? Has your husband asked
          you to do that?

                    KATHY
          No. And by the way, he's been
          working really hard. I'm not sure
          you know that, but he's rehearsing
          for a new play.

                    LEONOR
          No. I haven't seen your husband.

                    KATHY
          I know he's been waiting to hear
          from you.

Leonor doesn't respond.

                     KATHY
          Leonor?

Leonor continues to sew, until Kathy loses her patience, and
slaps her hand on top of the piece of clothing Leonor is
trying to sew.

                    KATHY
          Can't we talk about what is really
          going on here?

Leonor is startled: a completely unexpected reaction from
Kathy. She looks over to Bianca, to make sure she's not
listening.

                    LEONOR
          Shh. Not here.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              70.


48   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/BACKYARD - DAY                           48

     Leonor smokes a cigarette in the backyard. Kathy is next to
     her.

                         KATHY
               I know you think we're the rich
               people coming into this
               neighborhood, but the truth is
               Brian hasn't made any money in
               years. I've been supporting this
               family with my hard work.

                         LEONOR
               That's not my problem.

                         KATHY
               I know it's not. I'm just trying to
               talk about it.

                         LEONOR
               You think talking is going to solve
               all your problems, don't you? You
               think you can use some of your
               psychology class tricks and just
               wash away the dirt here? That dirt
               is my sweat, sweetie. It's my life.
               It's not going to be that easy.

                         KATHY
               I know that. What I want to tell
               you is we will give you time, but
               we need this money. We need the
               shop to cover its rent. That's not
               an unfair thing to ask of a tenant.

                         LEONOR
               But I'm not a tenant. To Max I was
               more than a tenant. I was family. I
               belong here. And before you go any
               further; let me ask you: do you
               know how much work I've done here?
               The tile floors? The marble
               bathroom? That office in the back?
               I paid for all that.

     Leonor throws her cigarette out. She turns and goes back into
     the store, leaving KATHY alone in the yard.


49   EXT. ACTING OUT TALENT ACADEMY - DAY                        49

     Julia is putting on her roller blades. Tony stands beside
     her, trying to make conversation.
                         Shooting Script 07/27/15            71.


                         TONY
               You look like you've been doing
               this acting thing forever.

                            JULIA
               Really?

                         TONY
               Like when you did the Emotional
               Recall exercise, it just seems so
               natural, I can't explain.

                         JULIA
               You know, my father was a stunt man
               when I was a kid. So I spent a lot
               of time on sets and stuff.

                         TONY
               So you have been doing this
               forever.

                         JULIA
               No, because when I was eight years
               old he died.

                         TONY
               Did he die doing a stunt?

                         JULIA
               No! He had throat cancer.

                            TONY
               Oh.
                   (stumped, thinking)
               I'm sorry for your loss.

     Eva comes out of the School, and joins Julia.

                         JULIA
                   (to Tony)
               I'll see you later?

                            TONY
               I hope so.

     She and Eva leave together, as Tony watches.


50   EXT. HERBERT VON KING PARK/AMPHITHEATER - DAY             50

     At a table in the park, Jake is sketching the landscape in a
     sketchbook, with his collection of Caran d'Aches spread
     around him. Tony is sitting across from him.
                     Shooting Script 07/27/15   72.


                    TONY
          Do you know anyone with a swimming
          pool?

                      JAKE
          No, why?

                    TONY
          I would do anything to see her in a
          bikini. Can you imagine?

                    JAKE
          I never thought about that.

                    TONY
          So what about you? Who do you like?

                    JAKE
          They're all very nice.

                    TONY
          You can tell me, you know.

                    JAKE
          Tell you what?

                    TONY
          If you like someone.

Jake keeps sketching in his book.

                    JAKE
          I don't know.

                    TONY
          That's what you always say.

                    JAKE
          Well I do have an idea you might
          like.

                      TONY
          What?

                    JAKE
          Eva talked about going dancing.
          There's a matinee club, like after
          hours, for kids.

                    TONY
          When is it?

                    JAKE
          Sunday afternoon, in the City.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              73.


                           TONY
               Let's go!

                         JAKE
               It would be fun, right?

                         TONY
               That would be perfect. If I can
               just dance with her...

     Tony comes closer, to check out Jake's drawing.

                          TONY
               Wow, that's getting good, Jake. I'm
               impressed.


51   INT. LEONOR'S APARTMENT/TONY'S ROOM - NIGHT                  51

     Tony is on his bed, playing a video game. There's a knock on
     the door, and Leonor sticks her head inside.

                         LEONOR
               Your father.


52   INT. LEONOR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                              52

     NICK CALVELLI, Tony's Italian-American father, is making
     himself a drink at the bar. He's taken by surprise when Tony
     enters running to give him a strong hug and a kiss.

                         NICK
               Tony! Whoa, man, watch out buddy.

     With the impact, some of the drink spills on Tony's head.
     Tony wipes his head with his father's shirt.

                         NICK
               Wait, wait. Let me do this for you.
               Don't worry. This is good luck.
               There you go. So tell me; what's
               going on? How's school? You still
               hoping for LaGuardia?

     Leonor brings a cup with ice to the table.

                         LEONOR
               C'mon, Antonio. You're not going to
               talk to your father?

     Tony shakes his head no, and gives his father another hug.
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15           74.


                         NICK
               Did the cat get your tongue?

                         LEONOR
               You forget he's too old for this
               kind of joke.

                         NICK
               What happened?

                         LEONOR
               He's mad at his mother.

                         NICK
               What about?

                           LEONOR
               Ask him.

     Tony looks at them both; he's not budging.

                         NICK
               Tony, now that I'm here you're not
               going to say anything to me?

     Tony shrugs his shoulders. Nick looks at Leonor, questioning.
     She shrugs her shoulders too.

                         LEONOR
               Go finish your homework, Antonio.
               We're having dinner soon.


53   INT. LEONOR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                           53

     Dinner is served. Leonor sits down and they start helping
     themselves to food. Tony, ever silent, pays attention closely
     to the conversation.

                         NICK
               So what are you going to do,
               Leonor?

                         LEONOR
               I don't know yet, but Hernàn is
               helping me out.

                         NICK
               Hernàn? Isn't he a bankruptcy
               lawyer?

                           LEONOR
               Yes.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              75.


                    NICK
          Is he the best person for this?

                    LEONOR
          He's my friend. He knows strategy.

                    NICK
          Are we talking about an exit
          strategy?

                    LEONOR
          No. A fighting strategy.

                    NICK
          But you should have an exit plan.

                    LEONOR
          I intend to fight. They can't do
          this to me.

Tony eats, but his ears are clearly on the conversation. He
is very curious about all this.

                    NICK
          What if they can?

                    LEONOR
          What do you want me to say, Nick?
          That I'm going to open a drug
          store? Start making furniture?

                    NICK
          Or look for a job?

Leonor stops eating for a moment. She can't believe her ears.

                    LEONOR
          You can't be serious.

                    NICK
          Don't take everything so
          personally, Leonor. The world isn't
          always stacked up against you.

                    LEONOR
          What does this have to do with
          anything?

                    NICK
          Rent goes up. That's life in this
          city. These people are not doing
          this to you.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              76.


                         LEONOR
               Why do you always have to disagree
               with me?

                         NICK
               I'm not disagreeing with you.

                          LEONOR
               Can't you be on my side for once in
               your life?

                         NICK
               I'm just being realistic. Life here
               is expensive. I think you should
               have a plan.

                         LEONOR
               What do you think I'm doing? Do you
               think this is easy for me?

                         NICK
               I know it's not.

                         LEONOR
               That store is how I have raised our
               son. With not much help from you,
               thank you very much.

                         NICK
               That's not true.

                         LEONOR
               Really? Do you think that sending
               him a little gift at the end of the
               year is enough to keep him fed? To
               buy him clothes? To take him to a
               movie every so often?

                         NICK
               Can we not talk about money now?
               Damn, Leonor. You spoil everything.
               I can't even eat.

     At this, Tony bangs his fork and knife on the table, loudly.


54   INT. LEONOR'S APARTMENT/TONY'S ROOM - NIGHT                  54

     Tony and Nick are playing a video game on Tony's bed. They
     are both concentrated, playing and actually having fun.
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15               77.


                          NICK
                Can you keep a secret? Swear? I was
                invited to head the mission in
                Kinshasa. It's a nice big city for
                Africa.
                    (playing the game)
                Oh no. No! No!! Shit.

      Tony smiles. He's winning. Nick jerks his body, tries hard,
      but it's too late. He's lost.

                          NICK
                Not far from Angola. I'm finally
                going to have my own apartment. Why
                don't you come and stay with me for
                a while? We could go on a safari.
                The rainforest is incredible.
                They're famous for these big
                gorillas, hippopotamus, all kinds
                of animals.

      Tony smiles, and gives his father a big hug.

                          NICK
                This acting school thing. Is it
                serious?

      Tony shakes his head yes.

                          NICK
                How serious?

      Tony shakes his head again. It's very serious.

                          NICK
                That's good. There's a lot more in
                this world than Brooklyn.

      Tony goes to hug his father.

                          NICK
                Listen, Tony. I know your mom can
                be a little rough, but she's just
                worried about you. You're not a kid
                anymore, and she needs you to look
                out for her. I need you to look out
                for her.


54A   INT. LEONOR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                           54A

      Leonor is cleaning up after dinner, drying the dishes.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                78.


55   EXT. MIDTOWN PLAZA - DAY                                    55

     Audrey and Brian sit on a bench in a concrete garden in
     Midtown, the plaza of a great building, drinking to-go
     coffees.

                         AUDREY
               Well, Dad must have really liked
               her. That part I think she's
               probably right about. He never
               raised the rent on the store. Not
               even once in more than eight years.
               And now Leonor's lawyer is charging
               us for improvements she made in the
               store.

                         BRIAN
               What does that mean?

                         AUDREY
               She wants to fight. The woman is
               trouble, Brian. Once again, our
               warm, lovable, unwise father left
               us with a big mess, and no
               instructions.

     They both take that in.

                         AUDREY
               Is it terrible, Brian, that I don't
               really miss him?

                         BRIAN
               No, it's not terrible. It's sad,
               but I don't blame you.

                         AUDREY
               Do you miss him?

                         BRIAN
               Sometimes. But I live in his house,
               so I probably think about him more
               than you do.

                         AUDREY
               She's claiming she has the right to
               stay paying almost nothing. I think
               we should start the eviction
               process as soon as possible.

                         BRIAN
               I don't want to have to do that.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              79.


                         AUDREY
               It takes a while, you know.

                         BRIAN
               I just don't want this to get ugly.
               The boys are best friends now.

                         AUDREY
               Remember that Dad worked very hard
               to leave us something. Now you have
               a nice big apartment, and I'm
               getting nothing.

                         BRIAN
               Just give me a little more time.

                         AUDREY
               I can't do this without you, you
               know.


56   INT. KID'S DISCO - DAY                                      56

     It's Studio 54 for KIDS and young TEENAGERS. Jake emerges
     from the bathroom and discovers a dance floor packed with
     boys and girls dancing in groups or doing solo numbers.

     Some come up with elaborate choreographies, while others just
     shake their bodies best they can. Many of them are in
     costumes, some with lights blinking, laser flash lights and
     other Disco toys.



     In the middle of the dance floor, Julia and Tony dance with
     each other - no choreography here, just plain dancing and
     having fun. He gives it all he's got, admiring her, while she
     closes her eyes, and lets the music take her away.

     She opens her eyes, and sees Tony looking at her. Julia
     smiles at him and they have a little moment dancing. Tony
     feels confident.

                          TONY
               Hey, do you want to come with me to
               the beach?

     Julia has a hard time hearing him.

                         TONY
               The beach! This summer! You want to
               come with me?

     She just keeps on dancing.
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15              80.


                           TONY
               Yes? No?

                         JULIA
               No, Tony. You're really nice and
               everything..., but I'm into older
               guys.

     Tony's legs slow down, he loses his rhythm.

                         TONY
               Oh, okay. Thank you for being
               honest.

     He's moved a little farther away and she has a harder time
     hearing him.

                           JULIA
               What?

                         TONY
                   (shouting)
               Thank you for being honest.

     A couple of GIRLS begin to dance with Julia, and Tony
     gradually moves away from her.

     For a moment, he seems lost on the dance floor. He looks
     around, and only see strangers.

     By the bar, Jake watches Tony on the dance floor.


57   INT/EXT. SUBWAY - DUSK                                       57

     SHOTS of the city passing by at night from inside a subway
     train.

     There's only a few people inside the subway. Tony and Jake
     are on a bench together, not talking.

     It's the end of a long day.


58   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - NIGHT                      58

     Brian walks down the street, coming home late from rehearsal.
     As he approaches his house, he sees something that catches
     his attention. He moves closer, and takes out his phone to
     light a sign posted on the window of the store.

     On the window, a sign: HELP WANTED - experience in retail
     required.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              81.


59   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT - NIGHT                              59

     Brian comes in from the kitchen, with a bottle of wine, to
     join Kathy. She is on the couch with a book, and a glass of
     wine in front of her.

                         BRIAN
               Do you want some more?

                         KATHY
               Sure.

     He sits next to her, and pours some wine in both glasses.

                         KATHY
               How'd it go?

                         BRIAN
               I think it's going to be great. I
               love my part, I love the actors,
               the play is fantastic.

                         KATHY
               I'll toast to that.

     They make a toast, but Brian seems tense.

                         KATHY
               What's going on?

                         BRIAN
               Did you see the sign Leonor has
               posted in the window?

                         KATHY
               No, I didn't see anything.

                         BRIAN
               She doesn't acknowledge the new
               lease, she doesn't try to negotiate
               and she has no plans of leaving.
               And now she's actually hiring new
               people, can you believe it?

                         KATHY
               I told you this wasn't going to be
               easy.

                         BRIAN
               Audrey wants to start an eviction
               process. She has a lawyer ready to
               go already.
                           Shooting Script 07/27/15           82.


                          KATHY
                Good. Then it's decided.

                            BRIAN
                Is it?

      Kathy takes a sip.



                          KATHY
                Who's going to tell Jake?

                          BRIAN
                I will. It's my problem.

                          KATHY
                Well then tell him soon. Please.

                          BRIAN
                He's just being so childish lately.


59A   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/JAKE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT            59A

      Jake is lying on his bed in his pajamas, with only a reading
      light on. He's concentrated on his work, drawing quietly,
      surrounded by his colored pencils.


60    INT. OFF BROADWAY THEATER - NIGHT                            60

      The stage is set; a lawn by a lake, a dead seagull and the
      wall of a house in the background. Brian and the actress
      playing NINA are in costume and in character. It's opening
      night.

                          NINA
                What are you writing?

                          BRIAN/TRIGORIN
                An idea for a short story. A young
                girl grows up on the shores of a
                lake, as you have.

      Brian/Trigorin looks intently into Nina's eyes.

                          BRIAN/TRIGORIN (CONT'D)
                She loves the lake as the gulls do,
                and is as happy and free as they
                are. But a man sees her who happens
                to come that way, and he destroys
                her out of idleness, and this
                seagull here has been destroyed.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              83.


     A pause. Arkadina appears on the window of the house.

                         ARKADINA
               Boris! Where are you?

                         BRIAN/TRIGORIN
               I am coming this minute.

     Brian/Trigorin gets up and walks towards the house. Arkadina
     remains at the window.

                         BRIAN/TRIGORIN
               What do you want?

                         ARKADINA
               We are not going away, after all.

     Nina stands by herself at the front of the stage.

                         NINA
               It is a dream!

     The lights go out, and the audience begins to clap
     vigorously. Kathy sits next to Tony, who is next to Jake.
     Jake is clapping most vigorously of all.




61   INT. JARDINE CAR - NIGHT                                    61

     Brian is driving his car through the city. Kathy is sitting
     in the passenger seat next to him, holding a BOUQUET OF
     FLOWERS. And in the back, Jake and Tony are there, sitting
     next to Roger, Brian's agent.

                         ROGER
               It's in your delivery. It's very
               natural. You really manage to make
               Trigorin feel contemporary.

                         BRIAN
               Well, thank you, Roger.

                         ROGER
               He's like one of those famous
               artists we meet at a party, you
               know? You're excited at first, but
               the minute you start a
               conversation, you're begging not to
               be left alone with the guy.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15                 84.


                    BRIAN
          Is that a good thing?

                       ROGER
          Yes!

                     KATHY
          He's such a tormented artist. It's
          wonderful.

Brian stops the car in front of Roger's apartment building.

                     ROGER
          And there were some really funny
          parts too.

                    BRIAN
          Isn't it! Chekhov called it a
          comedy in four acts.

                    ROGER
          Act two, particularly.

                    BRIAN
              (laughing)
          It is.

Roger squeezes Brian's shoulder, and leans over the seat to
give Kathy a kiss.

                    ROGER
          Bye Kathy. Great to see you.

                    KATHY
          Loved seeing you, Roger. It's been
          a great night.

He high fives with the boys, on his way out.

                    ROGER
          Bye fellas. You should be very
          proud of this man here!

Roger steps out of the car. Brian gives a big smile, and
waves goodbye to his friend.

The car starts again. Brian drives, and looks at the boys
behind him in the rearview mirror.

                       BRIAN
          So?

Jake and Tony smile.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15                85.


                    KATHY
          Jake? It's your dad's opening
          night.

                    BRIAN
          Did you understand why Nina says
          she's the seagull?

Jake shakes his head yes, Tony shakes his no.

                    KATHY
          Brian. They're kids. To be honest,
          I'm not even sure I get that part.

The boys look at each other and start laughing.

                    KATHY
          But that doesn't take anything away
          from the pleasure of the story.

Brian drives on, silent.

Suddenly, he pulls the car over, and shifts the gear to park,
then turns around, and faces the boys. He's upset.

                    BRIAN
          Do either of you care about anyone
          other than yourselves?

Jake is startled, trying to figure out who to answer to, his
father or his friend.

                    BRIAN
          Jake? Say something.

Jake looks at Tony, who is shaking his head vigorously.

                    BRIAN
          Say something!

Jake is frozen.

                    BRIAN
          One of the hardest things to
          realize as a child is that your
          parents are people too. Can you
          understand that? That they care
          about things. That they make
          mistakes. That they try to do what
          they think is right. Does any of
          what I'm saying make any sense to
          you?

Jake shakes his head yes. Tony laughs.
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15           86.


                         BRIAN
               What's so funny, Tony? Why don't
               you tell me, what's funny?? You
               think being an actor is easy? You
               think you have it in you for one
               rejection after another? Let's see
               how you react when you don't get
               into LaGuardia. Let's just see
               then.

                           KATHY
               Brian...

                         BRIAN
               God damn it!!

     He turns around, and puts the gear in drive, lurching back
     into the street. The boys look at each other. They are a
     little frightened, and a little victorious.


62   INT. CASA DE MODA/STORE - DAY                                62

     Leonor picks up a dress from a pile on the main table, and
     shows it to the new salesgirl, VALENTINA.

                         LEONOR
               Dresses go over there, on that rack
               on the left. Before you hang them,
               make sure they have a price tag.
               Also, try to arrange them by color,
               or tone. I usually like to start
               with lighter colors in the front,
               and end with darker ones. Black
               goes in the back. The women here
               like black a lot, so if they're
               looking for a little black dress,
               they might see a lot of other stuff
               before they get there.

                         VALENTINA
               I see. So if they don't know what
               they want, I try to keep them here
               in the front first, and then show
               them the ones in the back.

                         LEONOR
               Unless they ask specifically for
               black.

     They hear a bell RINGING, and look towards the door. Brian
     comes in.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15               87.


                         VALENTINA
               Hello. Can I help you?

                         LEONOR
               It's okay, Valentina. It's for me.
               This is Brian Jardine, our
               neighbor. He's a great actor.

                         VALENTINA
               Oh really? Have I seen you in
               anything?

                         BRIAN
               I doubt it.

                         LEONOR
               He's in a new play. What is it
               called?

                         BRIAN
               The Seagull.

                         LEONOR
               Oh. That must be very popular.

                         BRIAN
               Can you give me five minutes alone?
               Please?


63   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/BACKYARD - DAY                          63

     Leonor and Brian are standing outside. Leonor lights a
     cigarette.

                         LEONOR
               The day your father died, he came
               by in the morning. I asked him to
               buy me a pack of cigarettes, and
               then I never saw him again.

     Leonor gets emotional, and a tear rolls down her face.

                         LEONOR
               Your father cared about me, Brian.
               Do you believe that? Every day we
               would talk, and we would share
               things with each other. Have you
               ever had a friend like that?
               Someone you could tell anything?
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              88.


                    BRIAN
          Only my wife. I'm a lot like Jake.
          I've never been good at having
          close friends.

Leonor takes another drag.

                    BRIAN
          I hope you can understand that
          what's happening is nothing
          personal.

                    LEONOR
          I can't afford to pay three times
          the rent I paid your father. It's
          not possible. I can't survive.

Brian doesn't respond.

                    LEONOR
          I thought you were in a new big
          play.

                    BRIAN
          I am in a new play. But it's not
          big, and it's not a lot of money.
          It's just the way it is, Leonor.
          I'm fortunate enough to have had a
          father who left me a house in
          Brooklyn.

                    LEONOR
          He wanted me to stay here. He told
          me so.

                    BRIAN
          Leonor. I also have a sister, and
          she has her own family, and we all
          have to decide together what to do.
          It's not just up to me.

Leonor takes a moment, and then proceeds in a new direction.

                    LEONOR
          You know your father thought your
          sister was the one who inherited
          his brains.

Brian doesn't know how to respond.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              89.


                         BRIAN
               They were very much alike. I'm sure
               he would agree with Audrey that,
               above everything, it's important to
               take care of business.

                         LEONOR
               No. He wouldn't have agreed. I can
               promise you that.

                         BRIAN
               Leonor, what do you want me to say?
               I have a family. We have bills too.

                         LEONOR
               Do you know why your father didn't
               go to your son's birthday party,
               the last one?

                         BRIAN
               He had the flu.

                         LEONOR
               No. That's maybe what he told you.
               The truth is, he was embarrassed,
               Brian. He was embarrassed that
               everything in your house was paid
               for by your wife. He thought you
               should be more of a man. He hated
               being around you.

     Brian tries to swallow some coffee, but the cup is empty.

                         BRIAN
               Well, he's not around anymore, is
               he.

                         LEONOR
               He certainly isn't.


64   INT. CASA DE MODA/OFFICE - NIGHT                            64

     Leonor is on the couch in the office, while Hernàn, her
     lawyer, sits on the edge of the desk holding official court
     room papers. He's very serious, and she's clearly very upset.

                         HERNÀN
               This Holdover clause is common in
               any commercial lease.

     He hands her a piece of paper, which she reads.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              90.


                    LEONOR
          What am I going to do? I can't
          afford this.

Hernàn comes closer and puts his hand on her shoulder. The
door opens all of a sudden, and Tony storms in, frightening
Leonor.

                    LEONOR
          Jesus! I told you to knock before
          you come in. What do you want?
              ()

Tony laughs at the fright he's given Leonor.

                    LEONOR
          I am so tired of you playing this
          silly game!

Tony realizes by the tone of her voice that this is serious.

                    HERNÀN
          I'm sorry, Leonor.

He takes the paper from Leonor's hands.

                    LEONOR
          Where do they even get this number?

Her eyes fill up with angry tears.

                    HERNÀN
          The penalty for overstaying may
          seem like a high number, and it is.
          That's why it's in the contract; to
          prevent that the tenant overstays
          paying below the market rent
          indefinitely.

                    LEONOR
          Isn't there anything else we can
          do?

                    HERNÀN
          Leonor, I've done everything I can.
          It's over now. You have a week to
          leave the premises.

Tony sees his mother's eyes tear up with the news. She starts
to cry, and it's too much for him to bear. He goes and hugs
his mother.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                91.


                         TONY
               Don't worry, Mami. I'm going to
               help you. I promise, I'll figure
               out a way we can work it all out.

     He holds her as her crying turns into sobs.


65   OMITTED                                                     65


66   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/STAIRWELL - NIGHT                        66

     The empty stairwell. The doorbell rings. Brian comes down the
     stairwell to the front door of the house.

     The bell RINGS again, just as he OPENS the door.

     Tony is there, with his mom behind him.

                         TONY
               Hello, Mr. J. Is Jake home?

     Brian takes in that Tony is talking to him for the first time
     in weeks.

                         BRIAN
               Yes, he's doing his homework.

                         TONY
               I'd like to talk to him if I could.

                         BRIAN
               Of course, Tony. Come in.

     Leonor catches his eye.

                         BRIAN
               Why don't you both come in. Leonor.
               Please.

     They walk up the stairs to the apartment.


67   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT - NIGHT                              67

     The door to Jake's room is closed.

     Brian and Leonor sit together just outside at the dining room
     table.

     Kathy is standing a few feet away, at the kitchen door.
                   Shooting Script 07/27/15             92.


They have been waiting for awhile, waiting for the boys to
emerge. It's clearly an awkward situation for everyone.

                    KATHY
          You sure I can't get you something,
          Leonor.

                    LEONOR
          Yes, I'm fine.

Another moment of awkward silence... Until suddenly the door
opens and Jake comes running out.

                    JAKE
          Mom! Dad! Mom!!

                    BRIAN
          He talks! Jacob talks!

                    JAKE
          Mom!!!

                    KATHY
          What's going on?!

                    JAKE
          Mom, Tony told me Leonor is being
          evacuated from the store!

                    KATHY
          It's not an evacuation. It's an
          eviction.

                    JAKE
          That's worse!

                    JAKE
          How could you do that? How could
          you do that to them? Dad??

                    BRIAN
          It's a terrible situation.

                    JAKE
          The rent is too expensive! She
          can't afford it, Mom. So Dad needs
          to give her a discount so she can!

                    BRIAN
          Your mother and I wanted to talk to
          you, Jake, but this not talking
          didn't help!
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              93.


                    KATHY
          Don't blame this on him.

                    JAKE
          It's okay, I'm talking now! I'm
          sorry! I'm sorry! I'll never do
          that again. I promise. Dad, I
          promise.

                    BRIAN
          Jake, calm down.

                    JAKE
          I have a great idea.

                    BRIAN
          Let me explain to you, Jake.
          Grandpa Max left this house not
          just for the three of us here.

                    JAKE
          I know. He loved Leonor too. Tony
          told me!

                    BRIAN
          He liked Leonor, of course, but he
          left the house for us, and also for
          Aunt Audrey.

                    JAKE
          But I have an idea! I know how we
          can make it work! We go back to our
          old apartment, and we rent this
          place and give the money to Aunt
          Audrey. Tony and I are both going
          to be at the LaGuardia High School
          for Performing Arts in Manhattan,
          so I won't need to take the subway
          or anything to school. I can walk.
          And you'll be closer to the
          theater. I loved the show, Dad. I
          loved it. Tony did too. We both
          talked about it a lot afterwards.
          You were so good! And I thought it
          was really complex and everything.
          I'm sorry I didn't tell you then.
          I'm sorry. But I loved it. I really
          did!

Leonor, Tony, Kathy, and Brian all look in silence as Jake
goes on, trying to make this adult mess make sense again.
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15               94.


67A   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - NIGHT                   67A

      We see the house from the otuside. The gate has not been
      pulled down on the storefront yet, but most of the lights are
      off.

      Upstairs the lights are all on.


68    EXT. BROOKLYN - NIGHT                                        68

      A wide shot of the city of Brooklyn, houses and trees, the
      Verrazano-Narrows Bridge in the distance.


69    EXT. BROOKLYN - DAY                                          69

      A similar shot across Brooklyn at day, with the bridge and
      the water and Manhattan in the distance.


70    INT. CASA DE MODA/STORE - DAY                                70

      There are no clothes anymore, no decorations on the wall, the
      racks are bare naked. The store is completely empty.


70A   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - DAY                     70A

      Jake takes a look inside the store through the window.
      There's a "FOR RENT" sign on the glass. Jake looks for a good
      long moment, and then skates off down the street.


71    EXT. HERBERT VON KING PARK - DAY                             71

      Boys are playing a game of soccer.

      Jake approaches on his roller blades, and comes to a stop at
      the edge of the field. He watches the game from the side.
      Umar and Joey are among the players, but not Tony.

      Jake skates away, through the park.


72    EXT. BROOKLYN NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY                             72

      Several shots of Jake skating through the neighborhood
      streets.
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15              95.


72A   EXT. WATERFRONT PARK - DAY                               72A

      We see Jake alone for almost the first time, and he is both
      more vulnerable, and more confident. He passes by the
      Verazzano-Narrows Bridge, and then along the waterfront. He
      moves in silence, only the sound of the wind and the expanse
      of the Bay beside him.


73    OMITTED                                                   73


74    EXT. WATERFRONT PARK - DAY                                74

      Brian pulls up in his car, comes to a stop, and gets out. And
      already walking towards the car is Jake, with bandages on his
      right knee, being helped along by a PARK RANGER, who carries
      his roller blades.

                          PARK RANGER
                Mr. Jardine?

                          BRIAN
                How are you, Son?

                          JAKE
                I'm sorry, Dad.

                          BRIAN
                What happened?

                          JAKE
                There was a bump on the path...

                          PARK RANGER
                We got a call from a woman who saw
                Jake here flying through the air
                and landing on the asphalt. When we
                found him, he couldn't move.

                          JAKE
                I'm better now.

                          PARK RANGER
                He is better. But he probably
                shouldn't be on his own at his age.

                          JAKE
                There was a bump, I didn't see.

                          BRIAN
                Are you hurt?

      Jake shrugs.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                 96.


                         PARK RANGER
               He fell on his right side shoulder,
               and he scraped his knee.

                         BRIAN
               Let's go home.

     The ranger helps Brian put Jake in the back, with his leg
     stretched out and his foot up on the seat. Brian gets in to
     the driver's seat of the car.


75   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/JAKE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT                75

     Jake is lying down on his bed. Kathy applies antibacterial
     cream carefully to his scraped knee.

                         KATHY
               Is it okay like this?

                         JAKE
               Yeah. Go slow.

                         KATHY
               And how's your arm? Can you move it
               okay?

                         JAKE
               It hurts when I go like this.

     He moves it up and down a hair. Brian is standing behind
     them, in the dark.

                         BRIAN
               Dad had a heating pad that he used
               to use. I can't find it.
                   (to Kathy)
               You know where it is?

                         KATHY
               I think it's in the hall closet.
               I'll get it in a minute.

     She finishes with the cream, then gives Jake a kiss, and
     steps out.

     Brian takes over for her to finish the bandages.



                         BRIAN
               Do you still have a lot to do to
               finish your portfolio?
        Shooting Script 07/27/15      97.


          JAKE
I just need to finish one painting,
and then I'm done.

          BRIAN
That's what you said last week. You
just had to finish one painting.

          JAKE
I want them to be good.

          BRIAN
Jake, do you by any chance remember
that story I told you, about my
friend Tina?

          JAKE
The one who sold her hair in India
for a train ticket?

          BRIAN
No, that was Martine. Tina was a
girl I knew in high school who was
a dancer. Her mother was a dancer.
She was literally born to be a
dancer. She had a perfect ballet
dancer's body, and all of us were
certain she was going to be a big
success.

          JAKE
Have I seen her dance?

          BRIAN
No. During high school, she got
into a really good conservatory,
and I ran into her a couple of
times after that, and she was
always about to get this, or about
to get that. But each time, her arm
would be in a sling, or she would
be on crutches. She would have a
pulled ligament. Or a stress
fracture in her back. The last time
I saw her, I ran into her on the
subway, it was clear she hadn't
danced for years. She was fat. You
would have never imagined that she
was the same girl.

          JAKE
Gee, thanks Dad. That's a very
encouraging story.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15      98.


                    BRIAN
          Why do you think Tina didn't go
          very far?

                    JAKE
          I don't know.

                    BRIAN
          She trained too hard. She practiced
          too much. She didn't trust her own
          natural abilities.

He continues to wrap the bandage.

                    BRIAN
          Jake, you're going to meet a lot of
          really talented people in your
          life. But they won't all be suited
          to be artists, they won't all have
          the brains to know when to insist,
          and when to stop. When to push
          yourself, and when to relax. Most
          of them won't have that balance.

                    JAKE
          And how do I know if I have the
          balance?

                    BRIAN
          That's why I'm telling you this,
          because you'll turn in your
          portfolio soon, and they're going
          to love it. They're going to love
          you. I know they will. You'll go to
          LaGuardia, and you'll have fun, but
          also plenty of challenges. Soon
          enough you'll find out if you have
          the balance.

The bandage is done.

                    BRIAN
          There you go. Do you know if Tony
          got in?

                    JAKE
          I don't know. I don't know what
          he's doing.

Brian looks at Jake.

                    BRIAN
          Son. I wish I'd done things
          differently.
                    Shooting Script 07/27/15              99.


                    JAKE
          What do you mean?

                    BRIAN
          With Tony, and his mother. I wish I
          had told you earlier what was going
          on.

                    JAKE
          Would it have changed anything?

                    BRIAN
          No, probably not. But still.

                    JAKE
          Dad, would you mind if I give you
          some advice? Would that be okay.

                     BRIAN
          Please.

                    JAKE
          Don't worry so much.

Brian waits for more.

                    JAKE
          That's all.

                    BRIAN
          That's a lot.

Brian gives Jake a kiss on the forehead, and stands up.

                    JAKE
          Dad, would you mind if I play one
          of my video games? I know it's
          Tuesday, and I know I should do
          something more productive with my
          time, but I'm kind of tired.

                    BRIAN
          Of course, Son.

Brian finds the game controller, and hands it Jake.

                    JAKE
          Will Mom be mad?

                    BRIAN
          I don't think so.
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15              100.


75A   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT - NIGHT                             75A

      Kathy stands outside the door, heating pad in her hands,
      listening to her husband and son. She holds back her tears.

      Brian comes out of the room and closes the door. He sees
      Kathy, who begins to weep, as quietly as she can.

      Brian wraps his arms around her and they hold each other
      tightly.


75B   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/JAKE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT              75B

      Jake is in bed. He can hear the sounds of his parents outside
      the door.

      He switches on one of his video games, and let's the noise
      cover everything around him.


76    INT. BROOKLYN MUSEUM/FOYER TO BEAUX-ARTS COURT - DAY         76

      A small group of stylish BOYS and GIRLS are sketching some of
      the pieces in the foyer of a grand room in the Brooklyn
      Museum. By the way they dress and move, they're clearly
      artistic. Among them, looking more mature, more serious and
      maybe gay, with a stylish scarf around his neck, is Jake.
      Time has gone by; maybe a year or two.


76A   INT. BROOKLYN MUSEUM/BEAUX-ARTS COURT - DAY                76A

      Jake and his friends enter the formal and elegant Beaux Arts
      Court. Across the way, between arches, Jake sees a group of
      kids in khaki's and red shirts -- Tony's Catholic school
      uniform -- walking in the opposite direction.

      They are with one AFRICAN BOY, who is not in uniform.

      For a moment, he doesn't know what to do. Until, suddenly, he
      makes up his mind, and moves.


76B   INT. BROOKLYN MUSEUM/BEAUX-ARTS COURT - MOMENTS LATER      76B

      Jake walks in one direction around the courtyard.

      Tony and his friends continue to walk around the other side.

      Jake sees Tony and his friends exit the Court, and he
      follows.
                              Shooting Script 07/27/15         101.


76C   INT. BROOKLYN MUSEUM/STAIRWELL - MOMENTS LATER              76C

      Tony and his friends walk down the interior stairwell of the
      Museum.

      Jake follows. But at some point, he loses Tony and his
      friends. They have exited the stairwell without him knowing.

      Jake rushes down the stairs, trying to catch up.


76D   INT. BROOKLYN MUSEUM/ANCIENT EGYPTIAN ART ROOM - CONTINUOUS
                                                               76D

      Jake comes out of the stairwell into the Egyptian art area.
      He's out of breath.

      He looks in all directions, but doesn't see Tony anywhere.


76E   INT. BROOKLYN MUSEUM/STAIRWELL - MOMENTS LATER              76E

      Jake is sitting by himself in the stairwell.

      He is looking straight ahead. Not sure what to do with
      himself.

      A pack of kids in khakis rush past him. We only see their
      legs.

      Jake watches them go.

                             TONY (O.S.)
                   Jake! Your hair looks different.

      It's Tony.

      Jake stands up to say hello.

                             JAKE
                   Yours looks different too.

                             TONY
                   I went to Africa to visit my dad.

                             JAKE
                   How was it?

                               TONY
                   Amazing.

                             JAKE
                   And how's your mom?
                   Shooting Script 07/27/15            102.


                     TONY
          She's busy. She's a real estate
          agent now.

Jake laughs at the irony of the situation. Tony laughs with
him, maybe realizing it for the first time.

                    JAKE
          You could've sent me an email from
          Africa.

                    TONY
          You know me. I'm not much of a
          writer...

Jake notices a necklace of African beads around Tony's neck.

                    JAKE
          I love that necklace.

                    TONY
          Thanks. They make these for
          tourists, they don't really wear
          them there. But I like it too.

                    JAKE
          Hey, you should come meet my
          buddies from school.

                    TONY
          Did you get into LaGuardia?

                    JAKE
          I did.

                    TONY
          That's awesome!

                    JAKE
          There's this girl in my class, her
          mother is on Broadway, she can act
          better than anyone I know.

                    TONY
          Gee, thanks.

                    JAKE
          We should all go out together
          sometime.

                    TONY
          Sure, but I met this girl in
          Kinshasa, and my heart belongs to
          her. Do you want to see a picture?
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15             103.


                    JAKE
          Sure.

Tony pulls out his phone, and shows him pictures.

                    TONY
          She's a really good kisser. She's
          going to come to visit soon.

                    JAKE
          Cool.

                    TONY
          And you, have you kissed anyone
          yet?

                    JAKE
          No, but I've met someone.
              (pause)
          You'll meet him.

Tony's face lights up, grinning from ear to ear.

                    TONY
          You know! Finally, you know!

Jake and Tony share a knowing laughter.

                    TONY
          I'm here with a friend from Congo.
          Let's go find him. He's teaching me
          French, and I help him with his
          English - he says "bitchful",
          like... "This sculpture is so
          `bitchful'".

They laugh even louder, and head down to find Tony's friends.

The stairwell is empty, and white, and filled with sunlight.

IRIS TO BLACK, and the CREDITS ROLL.
