
                      L O S T   I N   S P A C E

                                  by
                            Akiva Goldsman


CHAPTER 1: Earth 2058
---------------------


FADE IN ON:

EXT.-SPACE

PULL BACK slowly as MARS fills THE FRAME, a sphere of red desert and
fast rushing crimson clouds.

A triangular CARGO SHIP descends from the dark of space.

                      PILOT (OVER)

          Mars mining base, this is Grissom One,
          Request final descent vector.

REVERSE ANGLE

EXT.-MARS

A row of giant red mountains and beneath, on the planet's surface, the
spires of A MINING BASE. Illuminated landing crosshairs alight a
landing pad, beckoning the ship.

                      CONTROLLER (OVER)

          Roger, Grissom One, this is Mars
          Mining, You are cleared to land. Hope
          you got some Partagas in that rust
          bucket, Sal.

EXT.-EDGE OF SPACE

THE CARGO SHIP changes attitude, landing thrusters FIRING as the
vessel begins to penetrate the atmosphere.

                      PILOT

          I brought you the most amazing...

Amazing, what, we'll never know. The CARGO SHIP begins to EXPLODE, the
bubble bridge BLOWING out into space in a ball of fire.

EXT.- MARS

LOW ANGLE from the planet's surface-. Two shapes BLAST through FRAME,
BUBBLE FIGHTERS, single pilot, transparent globes, racing up towards
the sudden star of the cargo ship at impossible speed.

INT.-BUBBLE FIGHTER

POV of the burning Cargo Ship, coming towards us incredibly fast.
Speed, trajectory and tactical readouts flash.

EXT.-CARGO SHIP

The pulse lasers are still hammering the ravaged hull.

WIDER

Two sinister ATTACK SHIPS, their lasers locked onto the Cargo Ship,
FIRE away as they BLAST overhead. The nuclear core of the Cargo Ship
overloads, the craft finally EXPLODING in a storm of fire.

A BUBBLE FIGHTER ROARS through the hurling world of flame. PUSH IN.

INT.-BUBBLE FIGHTER

A lone FIGURE stands in a gyroscopic harness, working a heads-up
holographic display, command controls spinning 360 degrees with the
pilot's Comas the fighter SCREAMS after the fleeing raider.

The harness spins, the pilot coming clearly into view. Handsome,
intense, reckless eyes. MAJOR DON WEST.

                      WEST

          Sino-Jordanian Raiders. They're
          claiming the cargo ship violated
          their air-space.

INT.-SECOND BUBBLE FIGHTER

Another pilot (JEB WALKER) commands an identical craft, ROCKETING
towards the assault craft just below West's.

                      JEB

          This cold war's heating up. Where did
          they come from?

INT.-WEST'S BUBBLE FIGHTER

                      WEST

          Hell. And we're going to send them
          back screaming.

West activates his targeting computer.

                      WEST

          Last one to kill a bad guy buys the
          beer.

TARGETING DISPLAY-CLOSE. The fleeing Attack Ship jogs in and out of
the crosshairs on West's holographic array. West fires.

EXT.-SPACE

The Attack Ship SHOOTS straight up, dodging West's laser BLASTS.

INT.-WEST'S BUBBLE FIGHTER

West closes on the fleeing craft, as Jeb engages the other Attack
Ship, lasers FIRING in the b.g., visible through the transparent
surface of the bubble glass under West's feet.

                      WEST

          What's that sound? must be the fat lady
          warming up.

EXT.-SPACE

The fleeing Attack Ship loops in mid-space, reversing direction,
heading straight towards West's Bubble Fighter. A game of chicken.

INT.-WEST'S BUBBLE FIGHTER

West doesn't flinch. Bears down, FIRING madly, the two space ships
heading straight for each other.

                      WEST

          That's right. Come on, come on, you wanna
          play, I wanna play.

EXT.-SPACE

The two ships are ROCKETING towards each other, locked in collision
vectors, lasers FIRING wildly.              asdasd

INT.-WEST'S FIGHTER

                      WEST

          I can hear her. Oh, yes, oh yes. She's
          gonna sing.

TARGETING:DISPLAY-CLOSE. The Attack Ship flashes, captured in the
targeting hatchmarks. The display expands into a tactical grid.

                      COMPUTER

          Target lock.

EXT.-SPACE

Imminent collision.

INT.-WEST'S FIGHTER

The hull of the Attack Ship fills his bubble glass.

                      WEST

          The lights are dimming. The curtain's
          coming down. Sing you fat, old bag,
          sing!

West hits the firing stud.

EXT.-DEEP SPACE

West's pulse lasers converge on the Attack Ship barely meters ahead,
the ROARING craft EXPLODING directly before him.

INT.-WEST'S BUBBLE FIGHTER

(OVER) WEST SCREAMS as he shoots through the sudden conflagration of
flame and debris, everywhere and then gone, giving way to the
blackness of space and the starfield beyond.

                      WEST

          Show's over.

Below, the second Attack Ship ROARS past, lasers FIRING, locked in a
pinwheel battle with Jeb's Bubble Fighter.

EXT.-SPACE

JEB'S BUBBLE FIGHTER banks, avoiding the high energy volley. Almost. A
laser BURST grazes his Bubble Fighter, the surface of his craft
sparking, suddenly scored with flames.

INT.-JEB'S CRAFT

The Attack ship is right behind him.

                      JEB

          Weapons are off line. Jettisoning main
          drive core.

EXT.-SPACE

The thruster core of Jeb's Bubble Fighter BLOWS off in a bolus of
flame, soaring back into the pursuit craft. The Raider EXPLODES.

INT.-JEB'S CRAFT

Controls are sparking. Displays flicker. (OVER) An ALARM sounds.

                      COMPUTER

          Warning. Failure in redundant drive systems.

JEB-POV. The surface of Mars is rushing up fast.


                      COMPUTER

          Impact on in 90 seconds.

                      JEB

          Mars Control. . .

EXT.-SPACE

Jeb's ship is barreling toward the planet.

                      JEB (OVER)

          . . .this is Ranger One.

INT.-WEST'S FIGHTER

                      JEB (ON RADIO)

          ...Engines will not respond. Require
          assistance. Repeat...

                      BASE (ON RADIO)

          Ranger One this is Grissom Base.
          Rescue craft have been dispatched.

EXT.- MARS MINING COLONY

Three small rescue craft race skyward.

INT.-JEB'S CRAFT

                      COMPUTER

          Impact in 60 seconds.

Mars fills the view screen.


INT.-WEST'S CRAFT

The rescue craft are speeding toward Jeb's fighter below.

                      WEST

          Grissom, this is Eagle One. Those Pugs
          Will never reach him in time.

                      BASE (ON RADIO)

          Eagle one clear this frequency and
          return to base.

DON takes a beat. Then he spins his chair towards Mars, begins working
the controls.

                      WEST

          This is Eagle One. I'm going after
          him.

                      BASE (OVER)

          Negative Eagle one, your craft is not
          equipped

West hits his thrusters.

EXT.-SPACE

West's craft dives toward Jeb's ship and Mars below.

INT.-JEB'S FIGHTER

Mars is coming up fast.

                      COMPUTER

          Impact in 30 seconds.

                      WEST (OVER)

          Jeb, do you have navigational
          thrusters?

                      JEB

          Don?

                      WEST (OVER)

          It's a yes or no question.

Mars fills the windscreen. Jeb checks his status display.

                      JEB

          Marginal. But in the green.

                      COMPUTER

          Impact in 15 seconds.

                      WEST (OVER)

          Head towards the canals.

                      JEB

          What are you doing?

                      WEST (OVER)

          Saving your ass. Read towards the
          canals. Now!

The canal streaked face of the Mars is all Jeb can see. He grabs his
throttle, engages his navigational thrusters and pulls.

EXT.-JEB'S SHIP

A tiny directional thruster FIRES, angling Jeb's craft so that it
scrapes the surface of Mars and dives into a giant canal, rocky walls
rushing up fast.

INT.-WEST'S SHIP

West is accelerating toward Jeb.

                      BASE (OVER)

          Major West, your ship is not equipped
          for rescue. You are not authorized to
          jeopardize this asset. That is
          a direct order. Acknowledge!

West slams a switch, deactivating his radio.

                      WEST

          Never liked that station, anyway.

He BLASTS into the canal, walls rushing up on either side of him.

EXT.-MARTIAN CANAL

Jeb's tiny craft is plunging toward the rocky crater floor below.

Overhead West's fighter appears, under full thrusters, roaring towards
the crater floor faster and at a sharper angle.

INT.-3EB'S FIGHTER

The canal floor is rushing up fast.

                      COMPUTER

          Impact in five seconds.

INT.-WEST'S FIGHTER

Don is blasting toward the canal floor, almost as if trying to beat
Jeb's ship to a fiery impact below.

                      COMPUTER

          Warning. Proximity alert.

                      WEST

          Jeb, I'm going to give you a little
          kiss. Don't take it the wrong way.

EXT.-MARTIAN CANAL

West angles his ship directly under Jeb.

INT.-JEB'S FIGHTER

The expanding surface of Mars, visible beneath his feet, is suddenly
obscured by Don's fighter, swooping under his ship.

                      JEB

          Don, abort. Abort.

INT.-WEST'S FIGHTER

Jeb's fighter is visible overhead.

West going up. Don angles the throttle.

EXT.-MARTIAN CANAL

Don's ship, sandwiched between the surface of Mars and Jeb's fighter,
angles up and, like a cue ball hitting it's target, Knocks Jeb's ship
spinning toward the safety of space beyond. West's ship actually
scrapes the surface of the planet, sending up a plume of Martian dust.

INT.-WEST'S FIGHTER

                      JEB (OVER)

          Does this mean we're going steady?

West pulls his throttle all the way back.

EXT.-MARTIAN CANAL

West shoots up and out towards the dark of space.

                      WEST (OVER)

          You weren't getting out of buying
          those beers that easy.

The rescue craft converge on Jeb's ship as Don heads for base.

                                                               CUT TO:

CHAPTER 2: Mission Objectives
-----------------------------


IMAGES-CLOSE. A Sallow field. (OVER) a heroic, stringy anthem.

                     VO

          Imagine an end to world hunger. What
          if ample food and clean drinking water
          were the birthright of all our
          planet's children?

INSERT IMAGE-A dashing hero, wind in his hair. JOHN ROBINSON.

                     VO

          This man, professor John Robinson,
          inventor of the faster than light
          hyperdrive can make that timeless
          dream a reality.

INSERT IMAGES -Airbrushed faces of a perfect family. THE ROBINSONS.

                     VO

          John Robinson and his family have been
          extensively trained to take a ten year
          journey across the galaxy in the
          world's most advanced spacecraft,
          The Jupiter.

INSERT IMAGE-A towering launch dome glints in the morning sun.

                     VO

          From a distant world, the Robinsons,
          Will bring back a miracle...

INSERT IMAGE-A satellite photo of a planet. Closer on continental
patches, enhanced to show deposits of a diamond like powder.

                     VO

          Dimondium can turn even worthless sand
          to fertile soil. Earth WILL be a
          garden. What kind of - future can our
          children look forward to?

INSERT IMAGES - Sun dappled, swaying wheat. (OVER) Music crescendos.

                     V0

          A future without hunger. A future
          without suffering. Heaven on Earth.

INSERT CORPORATE LOGO.-A Coke bottle hurling towards the stars.

                     V0

          This mission sponsored by the US Army
          and the Coca-Cola corporation.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

WILL ROBINSON (10) hides in a small space, watching the commercial on
a jury-rigged, palm-sized computer. He mimics the Naylrator.

                     WILL

          Coke. Saving the world for our
          children.

          (a beat)

          Give me a hi-test break.

WILL-POV. Spying through the open slats of his biding place into...

INT:-LIVING ROOM-AFTERNOON

Basic twenty first century modern. MAUREEN ROBINSON stands, talking
with a PRINCIPAL who in less than happy.

                     PRINCIPAL

          He hacked our main power grid to run
          his experiment. The school was in
          chaos. We didn't even have lights.

The room lights suddenly dim. The Principal flickers, revealed as a
holograph, her head now sitting on Schwartzenegger body.

Maureen LAUGHS, then realizes the Principal has no idea her image is
being distorted. Maureen begins moving about the room, surreptitiously
glancing behind couches, into cabinets.

                     PRINCIPAL (OVER)

          This is no laughing matter, Mrs.
          Robinson. Will is terribly gifted. His
          little time machines, though pure
          fancy, are the products of a truly
          brilliant mind.

The Principal's body has become Twiggy's. Now that of an ape. Maureen
pulls open a closet. Will sits inside. Grins.

                     WILL

          The changing shape of education.

                     MAUREEN

          No more monkey business.

Will shrugs, adjusts his deck. The Principal returns to normal.

                     PRINCIPAL

          The boy is starved for attention. Was
          there no way his father could have
          attended the science fair?

EXT.-HOUSTON - DAY

Probably Austin and Dallas too. Texas has become a giant urban sprawl
spreading into Mexico and beyond. Immense industrial air purifiers
hang in a dark, wet sky.

EXT.-HOUSTON SPACE COMMAND-ESTABLISHING

A giant dome topped pedestal towers ever the skyline.

INT.-SPACE COMMAND-MISSION CONTROL-DAY

A MAN stands before a large viewscreen facing the throng of PRESS.

He's a little uncomfortable with all the media attention. This is
PROFESSOR JOHN ROBINSON.

                     JOHN

          Once we have landed on Alpha Prime our
          on board robot will begin construction
          of a hypergate.

ON SCREEN a hi-tech orbital gate is highlighted and expanded.

                     JOHN

          By then, technicians here on Earth
          will have completed a companion
          hypergate in our planet's orbit.

ON SCREEN an image of an orbital gate now under construction.

                     JOHN

          Once both gates are complete, ships
          will be able to pass instantaneously
          between them. The Jupiter can bring
          the Dimondium back to Earth without
          the ten year delay of a return trip.

                     REPORTER

          Why can't you just use the Jupiter's
          hyperengine to zap straight to Alpha
          Prime?

                     JOHN

          As you know, hyperspace exists beneath
          normal space. If you try to enter
          hyperspace without a gate

ON SCREEN a graphic spaceship appears randomly in the corner of a
turning schematic of the galaxy.

                     JOHN

          Your exit vector is random. There's no
          telling where you'd come out.

                     REPORTER

          Professor, how is Captain Daniels
          recovering from the flu? Will we still
          be able to pilot the mission?

John glances to the doorway where a uniformed GENERAL stands.

                     GENERAL

          Ladies and Gentlemen, you came to get
          a look at the Jupiter One. Don't you
          think you've waited long enough?

John hits a button and the room darkens. A giant monitor reveals...

INT.-LAUNCH DOME

A giant saucer sits connected to its launch pad by loading belts,
steaming fuel tubes and spindled gantries.

                     REPORTER (OVER)

          Professor, how does your family feel
          about leaving the Earth behind....

                     JOHN (OVER)

          They couldn't be more excited.

CHAPTER 3: Goodbye!
-------------------


EXT.-ROBINSON HOUSE-ESTABLISHING

A suburban colonial, the launch dome towering in the distance.

                      PENNY (OVER)

          This whole mission sucks!

INT.-ROBINSON HOME HALLWAY-SUNSET

PENNY ROBINSON (14) furious, turns, looks downstairs at Maureen.

                      PENNY

          I Don't want to stay home for dinner.
          I want to see my friends for the last
          time.

She takes a beat, blinking away the tears. Lifts her wrist and turns
on a video camera watch. She begins down the hall.

VIDEO-POV. Penny's face in the monitor screen.

                      PENNY

          ... On the eve before she is torn from
          her friends, kidnapped, hurled into
          deep space against her will, what
          thoughts fill the mind of the young
          Space Captive....

INT.-WILL'S ROOM-SUNSET

Penny enters a strewn, boy' a world. Will is trying to select items to
place in a single packing canister marked: PERSONAL CARGO.

                      WILL

          Will there be boys on Alpha Centuri?
          What will I wear?

                      PENNY

          When we wake up in ten years the video
          journals of Penny Robinson, Space
          Captive, will be devoured by millions.
          I will be world famous. You on the
          other hand, will have been totally
          forgotten.

Penny shows the camera her arm, covered by strings of ribbons.

                      PENNY

          The Space Captive has decided to wear
          ribbons of support for fellow
          sufferers as she is dragged into deep
          space, green for the ecological
          issues, white for human rights

                      WILL

          You'd probably gag if I described the
          secondary infections loss of
          circulation can cause.

Penny seems about to speak, instead just smiles, goes to his bed and
pulls off the sheets, begins knotting them together.

                      WILL

          What are you grinning at?

                      PENNY

          I just found an upside to this
          mission. The thought of jettisoning
          your body into deep space.

Penny knots the sheets into a rope, ties it to the bed-post. Will
lifts several palm-sized gold-plated stars. Each reads: 1st prize.

                      WILL

          Dad says Don't bring them. Like
          anything I do matters to him.

                      PENNY

          He never showed, huh?

                      WILL


          Maybe if I had actually broken the
          time barrier he would have paid
          attention.

                      PENNY

          Don't let him get to you, kiddo. He
          just gets busy with work is all.

Penny tosses the rope out the window, prepares to climb.

                      WILL

          So, that's a no to family dinner?

                      PENNY

          Let's see, do I spend my last night on
          Earth watching Mom and Dad pretend not
          to be fighting again or get in ten
          years of making-out at the mall ...
          you do the math.

                      WILL

          Mom's gonna go thermal.

                      PENNY

          What's she gonna do. Ground me?

CHAPTER 4: Major West
---------------------


INT.-SPACE COMMAND-CORRIDOR

John and the General walk the metal passageway.

                      JOHN

          We're lucky they didn't press on
          Daniels, condition.

                      GENERAL

          I figured a chance to look at the ship
          would keep the dogs at bay.

                      JOHN

          Ben, I'm worried about jamming in a
          replacement pilot at the last second.
          My family' a on this mission. I need
          someone who's more than just spit and
          polish.

                      GENERAL

          I've got your man. He just doesn't
          know it yet.

The General palms an access panel. A door hisses open to reveal...

INT.-SPACE COMMAND- CONFERENCE ROOM-CONTINUOUS

A figure stands staring silently out the window. Don West. He offers a
salute. By his eyes, West is clearly agitated.

                      GENERAL

          At ease, Major.

                      WEST

          Sir, why was I pulled off active duty?
          I salvaged my craft and Jeb's. I'll
          fight a court martial, General.

                      GENERAL

          Do you know Professor Robinson?

                      WEST

          By reputation only.

          (to John)

          Your father's battle strategies were
          required reading at the Academy.

                      GENERAL

          How much do you know about the Jupiter
          Mission, Major?

                      WEST

          The Jupiter is fully automated. The
          pilot flies the ship out of the solar
          system and lands on Alpha Prime. It's
          a baby sitting job, sir.

                      GENERAL

          Major, you are aware Earth's resources
          are severely limited.

                      WEST

          Every schoolchild knows our recycling
          technologies will save the
          environment. Sending a family across
          the galaxy is a publicity stunt to
          sell soda to people of all ages.

                      GENERAL

          What I am about to tell you is
          classified. Every schoolchild
          has been lied to. The recycling
          technologies have failed. In
          less than two decades Earth will be
          unable to support human life.

                      GENERAL

          We spun the ad campaign to give the
          mission a friendly face, keep people
          from panicking in the streets. We
          partnered with Coke because the 900
          billion this mission cost would have
          bankrupted the government. The
          SinoJordanian Alliance knows the truth
          as well as we do. They hope to reach
          Alpha Prime first - And if they do,
          I guarantee you, they will not share
          the Dimondium with Western Demons like
          us. our crops will wither. We will be
          left to die.

                      WEST

          ...Captain Daniels doesn't have the
          flu, does he sir?

                      GENERAL

          Daniels was murdered in his apartment
          last night. The flu story is a cover
          we fed the press.

                      WEST

          Dan was a good pilot. A good man.

                      GENERAL

          Your rescue stunt over Mars was
          foolhardy. Explain yourself, Major.

                      WEST

          I had a friend in trouble.

                      GENERAL

          You endangered a one billion dollar
          spacecraft, disobeyed a direct order
          because of a friend?

                      WEST

          Yes sir. And I'd do it again. Sir.

                      JOHN

          He'll do.

          (stepping forward)

                      GENERAL

          Congratulations Major, you're the new
          pilot of the Jupiter mission.

CHAPTER 5: Dr. Smith
--------------------


EXT.-DESERT-DAY

Sun beats hard on a MAN who stands on a windswept sand dune, talking
to a smartly dressed BUSINESSMAN.

                      MAN

          Perhaps a brief jaunt down memory
          lane is required. I was contracted
          to provide Daniels, apartment code.
          My work is done.

                      BUSINESSMAN

          They found a replacement pilot, the
          mission is going ahead on schedule.

                      MAN

          How tragic. For you.

                      BUSINESSMAN

          We require more direct intervention.

                      MAN

          I see. Well, that will cost you. And,
          I'm afraid my price has just become
          ... astronomical.

(OVER) a KNOCK. The man reaches forward and presses a button. The
businessman, the desert disappear, only holographs.

Room lights.

Lights come up to reveal...

INT.-MISSION CONTROL-MEDICAL LABS

The man turns, revealing a face as clever an his eyes are evil. This
is DR. ZACHARY SMITH. He walks to the door, palms a panel, and the
portal hiss open. A TECHNICIAN ENTERS.

                      TECHNICIAN

          Control hasn't received the results
          of your final pre-flight exams,
          Doctor Smith.

The Doctor moves to a circular overhead light board around which are
displayed the faces of the crew of the Jupiter craft. Removes the
micro-files, hands them to the technician.

                      SMITH

          The Robinsons are checked out at one
          hundred percent. They are in perfect
          condition and ready to fly.

He smiles, so sweet you can barely see the malevolence behind it.

                      SMITH

          Wish them good luck for me.

CHAPTER 6: Welcome Aboard!
--------------------------


INT.-SPACE COMMAND-WALKING

Three small figures walk through a gantry towards the ship.

                      GENERAL (OVER)

          The mission protocols are simple.
          Professor Robinson is in command
          unless you encounter a military
          emergency. In that case, Major West,
          you will assume command.

The figures have come to the saucer entry-port.

                      JOHN (OVER)

          Welcome aboard, Major.

INT.-JUPITER BRIDGE - CONTINUOUS

Don, John, and the General ENTER. Don's eyes widen.

West looks like somebody sprung for the full extras package on this
baby.

REVERSE ANGLE

Hi-tech heaven. Two pilots, chairs face a giant windscreen. Don walks
to the consoles that stretch toward the back walls.

                      JOHN

          Some of this technology might be new
          to you. I'll be happy to explain.

                      WEST

          (off the com)

          Cold fusion drive

          (off the size consoles)

          Rambler-Krey Life Sciences stations.

Don strides to a pedestal in the center of the bridge. Flicks a switch
and a holographic Jupiter craft appears on the launch pad.

                      WEST

          Holographic navigational interface.

Don points to a row of man-sized glass cylinders on the back wall.

                      WEST

          Cryosleep array. Fully monitored.

He approaches the blast doors that lead off the back of the bridge.

                      WEST

          Sick bay, remote Ops, engineering and
          living quarters are below decks.
          Hyperengine should be in here.

Don hits a wall panel which opens to reveal an immense ENGINE ROOM.

                      JOHN

          If you have to baby sit, it's not
          such a bad nursery, wouldn't you
          agree, Major?

Just then the ELEVATOR rises from the lower decks. On its circular
platform stands a DOCTOR in a lab coat. She walks to the General.

                      DOCTOR

          The cryosleep systems are running at
          ninety five percent.

                      GENERAL

          Doctor Smith approved the specs-

                      DOCTOR

          Doctor Smith is base physician. I am
          responsible once this ship is in
          flight. These tubes have to keep the
          crew in suspended animation for ten
          years. They will be perfect or this
          ship will not launch. Is that clear?

                      GENERAL

          Absolutely, Doctor.

                      JOHN

          Judy, I'd like you to meet Major
          West. He's taking Mike's place.

                      DOCTOR

          He's heavier than Mike. We'll have to
          re-calibrate.

                      WEST

          I'd be more than happy to discuss my
          dimensions perhaps over dinner?

                      DOCTOR

          West - I've read about you. Something
          of a war hero, aren't you?

                      WEST

          (preening )

          Well, yes, actually.

                      DOCTOR

          Those who can't think, fight.

          (a freezing smile)

          Well, nice to have met you.

She heads toward the readouts. West turns to John.

                      WEST

          That's one cold fish I'd love to
          thaw.

                      JUDY

          (turning)

          I'm not going to make it home for
          dinner, Dad.

West turns to John. Dad?

                      WEST

          It's going to be a long flight.

EXT.-ROBINSON HOME-NIGHT

Lights burn in the windows.

INT.-ROBINSON HOME-DINING ROOM-NIGHT

John ENTERS to find the remains of an elegant dinner on the table,
candles never lit, food never eaten.

John crosses to a small scale model sitting on the table. Around it
hangs another gold plated 1st prize star. He smiles.

                      MAUREEN (OVER)

          He won first prize again. He
          practically brought down his entire
          school. But he won first prize.

Maureen descends the steps in a bathrobe. Joins John.

                      JOHN

          A non-working prototype for his time
          machine. Sharp stuff for a midget.

Maureen is silent.

                      JOHN

          I'm sorry about dinner. I had to work
          late. The new pilot-.

                      MAUREEN

          What you had to do was prioritize
          your family over the mission

                      JOHN

          Maureen. This mission is about our
          family. So we can stay together

                      MAUREEN

          The perfect nuclear family. The most
          stable social unit, ideally suited
          for the isolation of a long journey
          into space. It's all just PR, John.
          You're never home. Judy is
          becoming a ghost just like you. Penny
          can't see past her own navel and Will
          has to black out-his school, just to
          get his father's attention. The
          perfect nuclear family in ruin.

John stares at his wife. Then he reaches forward, touches her hair.

                      JOHN

          I know, Maureen. I'm scared too.

A beat. Then she moves to him. And he holds her close.

INT.-ROBINSON HOME-WILL'S ROOM-NIGHT

John stands in the yellow wedge of hall light. He touches something
hanging around his own neck. A pair of metal dog tags.

WIDER

Will lies in his bed, eyes closed. Asleep. A beat. John turns, heading
out into the hall.

EXT.-ROBINSON HOME-NIGHT

The bedroom lights go out, a normal home against the backdrop of the
launch dome towering in the distance.

INT.-SPACE COMMAND-LAUNCH DOME-NIGHT

The Jupiter one stands amidst loading gantries, final supplies rolling
into the
ship on automated conveyer belts and lifts.

CHAPTER 7: Primary Directives
-----------------------------


PAN DOWN

TWO TECHNICIANS stand checking off supplies on a lightpad.

                      LOADING TECHNICIAN

          Anything else?

                      LOADING TECHNICIAN #2

          I'm showing a late shipment from
          Mission Medical. Smith's
          authorization. Here it is now.

HOLD on a canister that reads: BIOLOGICAL MATERIALS: Do Not Open, as
it passes on the loading belt. FOLLOW THE DRUM as it winds along the
conveyer, up a gantry towards the Jupiter One. PUSH IN...

INT. -CARGO DRUM

Smith sits crouched inside, cleaning his nails.

INT.-JUPITER ONE-LOWER DECKS

A giant robot stands attached to its service bay. Still. Silent.

A SERVICE DRAWER slides open and a shadowy infiltrator emerges, his
face visible in the dim service light. Smith.

Smith approaches the docked Robot, places a small keypad device on the
Robot's dormant CPU panel. Smith activates the device.

                      SMITH

          You'll forgive me if I forgo the
          kiss, my sleeping behemoth.

Smith hits a switch on the panel and the Robot's system indicators
light into life. Smith types several keys on the keypad.

                      SMITH

          But the time has come to awake.

                      ROBOT

          Robot is on-line. Reviewing primary
          directives. One, preserve the
          Robinson Family. Two, Maintain ship
          systems. Three

                      SMITH

          Spare me the chatter.

Smith taps the keypad. The Robot is silenced. Smith types again.

                      SMITH

          What noble charges my steely
          centurion. Sadly I fear you have far
          more dire deeds in store for you.

Smith completes his re-programming. Hits a switch.

                      ROBOT

          Robot is on-line. Reviewing primary
          directives. Two hours into mission
          destroy Robinson family. Destroy all
          systems.

Smith smiles. Removes the re-programming module.

                      SMITH

          Now that's more like it. Farewell my
          tin-plated pal. Give my regards to
          oblivion.

Smith climbs into a chute marked WASTE DISPOSAL.

INT.-WASTE DISPOSAL CHUTE

Smith begins crawling down the chute. His tiny reprogramming module
BEEPS. Smith activates a tiny, built in com-link.

From the mic, the familiar visage of the Businessman is projected into
the crawlspace over Smith's face.

                      SMITH

          I told you never to call me here.

                      BUSINESSMAN

          I see you have completed your mission
          on schedule Good work, Doctor. And
          goodbye.

The Businessman smiles. SMITH-CLOSE. Puzzled.

Suddenly the tiny module in his hand OVERLOADS, the flesh on his palm
smoking as Smith is engulfed in an electrical charge. He goes out, his
body perfectly still.

CHAPTER 8: Launch!
------------------


EXT.-SPACE COMMAND-MORNING

The giant dome shines in the early sun.

INT-JUPITER ONE  John and Maureen face will and Penny who stand now in
their freezing tubes. All  wear silver flight suits. Maureen moves
Penny's hair from in front of her face.

                      PENNY

          Don't, mom. Vogue says this will be
          the style in ten years.

                      WILL

          Will she wake up less annoying?

                      PENNY

          Does he have to wake up at all?

                      MAUREEN

          Alright you two, enough.

Maureen kisses her children. John moves to will who reaches to shake
at the same moment John tries to hug him. A beat. Then John tries to a
shake as Will goes for the hug. A total miss. Will backs into his
tube.

                      MAUREEN

          You get a C in paternal expression,
          Professor. But an A for effort.

John kisses his wife, already in her tube.

                      MAUREEN

          You always get an A in that.

                      JUDY

          Don't let me shatter this unbridled
          display of affection, but we are
          running behind.

                      JOHN

          (entering his tube)

          Major, she's all yours.

                      WEST

          I'll try to give you a smooth ride.

Judy walks the row, checking their bio-monitors. Enters her tube.

                      JUDY

          Mission control this is Dr. Robinson.
          We are in the green.

                      MISSION CONTROL (OVER)

          Roger, Doctor, you are go to initiate
          cryostasis.

Don walks to Judy's tube.

                      WEST

          One question, Doctor. in there room
          in these tubes for two?

                      JUDY

          Barely enough for you and your ego,
          Major. Drive carefully.

              (touches her com-link)

          initializing cryostasis tubes.

The tubes rotate closed around the Robinsons. Suddenly each crew
member is surrounded by a shimmering blue glow, brightening like a
star and then subsiding. All stand fixed in suspended animation.

Don stares at the family a beat. He goes to the main console. Straps
himself in.

                      WEST

          Mission Control, this is Jupiter One.
          The Robinsons are asleep. We are
          ready to fly.

INT.-SPACE COMMAND-MISSION CONTROL

Welcome to the future. Banks of monitors manned by gum-chewing, pink
haired technicians. A giant monitor shows the Jupiter on the launch
pad. The CONTROLLER (NOAH FREEMAN) pulls in to his console.

                      NOAH

          Jupiter Two this is Mission Control.
          You are at T-minus two minutes and
          counting. We're opening the dome.

MONITOR-CLOSE. The dome begins to part.

EXT.-JUPITER ONE

Giant gantries retract. Fueling lines disengage.

INT.-JUPITER ONE

                      WEST

          External fuel pressure to zero.
          Powering main drive systems.

EXT.-JUPITER ONE

The nuclear drive at the base of the saucer EXPLODES, the giant craft
TREMBLING, straining towards the sky.

INT.-MiSSION CONTROL

                      NOAH

          Jupiter One you are at ninety five
          percent.

INT.-JUPITER ONE

                      WEST

          Houston, main drive systems to on
          line status. It's showtime.

EXT.-JUPITER ONE

Nuclear ENGINES ROAR. The ship begins to rise in a bolus of flame.

INT.- MISSION CONTROL

                      NOAH

          We have lift off.

INT.-JUPITER ONE

                      WEST

          Requesting escape trajectory.

INT.-MISSION CONTROL

                      NOAH

          Major, your escape vector in clear of
          all military and commercial traffic.
          Op in go on your command.

INT.-JUPITER ONE

                      WEST

          Roger, Houston.

West reaches for a glowing panel.

                      WEST

          We're outta here.

EXT. JUPITER ONE

The atomic power source fires a focused BLAST, shooting the Jupiter
through cloud and sky towards the black edge of space.

INT:-MISSION CONTROL

The main screen shows a graphic of the Jupiter's trajectory as the
ship arcs toward the outer edge of the atmosphere.

                      NOAH

          Jupiter One, you are clear Earth's
          atmosphere.

A CHEER goes up in the control room.

EXT.-JUPITER ONE

The giant saucer shell EXPLODES, revealing the inner ship, the
glittering high tech shape of the JUPITER TWO.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

Don watches as the Earth recedes into a blue marble, flickering
orbital billboards growing distant. Smiles at the familiar sight.

                      WEST

          Jupiter One booster disengaged.
          Proceeding towards Mercury.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

Nuclear diodes at the ship's base spin into life, glowing with atomic
fire, the ship now heading towards Mercury and beyond.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-LOWER DECKS

The Robot stands dormant in his service bay. HOLD on the closed
service drawer in the b.g. PUSH IN.

INT.-SERVICE DRAWER

Smith lies still, unconscious in the dark compartment.

INT-JUPITER TWO BRIDGE

Mercury hangs like a red moon in the front viewscreen.

WIDER

Don presses a button and two giant blast shields close over the
Jupiter Two's main viewscreen.

                      WEST

          Houston, diverting all spacecraft
          controls to the main computer.

          (off mic)

          Eight years of flight training.

He walks to the center of the bridge and activates the navigational
holograph, images forming in mid-air over the pedestal.

HOLOGRAPH- CLOSE. The Jupiter Two is visible, backed by the planets of
our solar system.

                      WEST

          Navigational holographics on line.

          (off mic)

          Fifty combat missions.

Don touches buttons and a highlight indicates the ship's trajectory
past mercury, around the Sun in a slingshot and into space beyond.

                      WEST

          Course confirmed for slingshot exit
          of the solar system.

          (off mic)

          Just so I can take the family camper
          on an interstellar picnic.

Don walks to the freezing tubes. He zips up his silver flight suit.

                      WEST

          Ten world series. My, nephews' high
          school and college graduations. A
          decade's worth of Sports Illustrated
          swimsuit editions.

          (a beat)

          Noah, ten years in a lifetime.

West climbs into his tube.

INT.-MISSION CONTROL

                      NOAH

          Sleep well, old friend.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

Don hits a switch and his tube closes. A beat then he is engulfed by
the blue
glow, frozen in space. The tubes rise into the craft.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

The ship flies on into the endless night.

                                                          DISSOLVE TO:

CHAPTER 9: Destroy!
-------------------


INT.-JUPITER TWO-WASTE DISPOSAL CHUTE-LATER

Smith lies still. He starts from a nightmare into...-a nightmare

INT.-JUPITER TWO-LOWER DECKS

Smith scrambles out of the chute, stares at his hand, the impression
of the overloaded communicator seared into his palm.

He spins around disoriented. Stumbles to a closed view screen and hits
a stud. The blast shield opens. Space.

SMITH-CLOSE. Shock. No words.

THE ROBOT-CLOSE. In his docking bay. Suddenly the automaton powers up,
lights activating as his CPU comes on line.

                      SMITH

          No.

Smith turns, slaps the burned out programming module on the Robot.

                      SMITH

          Disable program.

No response. The Robot continues to power up.

Smith engage interface. Initiate system shut-down.

                      ROBOT

          Robot is on line. Implementing prime
          command directives.

The Robot disengages from the service bay, begins rolling forward.

                      ROBOT

          Robinson family, destroy.

                      SMITH

          No. Cease. Desist.

The Robot rolls towards the bridge.

                      ROBOT

          All operating Systems, destroy.

Smith grabs a wrench from a tool bracket, leaps for the Robot. The
Robot swings once, sending Smith flying into a flaring console.

                      ROBOT

          Jupiter Two, destroy.

INT.-MISSION CONTROL-NIGHT

Dark. A single Techie (ANNIE) mans the watch, playing holo-games with
a stylus over her desk. SCREENS flicker into life.

                      ANNIE

          What the-?

          (into a mic)

          Somebody wake up the chief.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-BRIDGE

Still. The bridge doors open and the ambient lights come on.

The Robot rolls onto the bridge, faces the cryosleep array. He extends
his arms, an electrical charge arcing between his claws.

                      ROBOT

          Robinson Family, destroy.

He fires, a blast of electricity hitting the cryosleep controls.
(OVER) ALARMS sound as the tubes begin to descend, electricity
sparking across the sleeping Robinsons.

                      SMITH (OVER)

          Mechanical moron. You'll kill us all.

Smith, wrench in hand, rushes the Robot, is again hurled across the
room. The Robot turns towards the navigational computer.

INT.-MISSION CONTROL

Fully lit. All the monitors are manned by sleepy Techies. Noah ENTERS,
taking a coffee from Annie without breaking stride. , ALARMS flash
everywhere.

                      NOAH

          This mission's over. Wake them up.

The Techies begins working the controls.

                      ANNIE

          No response, sir. I'm sorry.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

The Robot is facing the navigational holograph in the center of the
bridge. The electricity arcs between his claws once again.

                      ROBOT

          Operating systems, Destroy.

Smith is slumped against the bulkhead. He shakes off his fall in time
to see the Robot fire at the navigational array, the holograph
disappearing in the flames of the exploding pedestal.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

The ship begins to veer off course, falling towards the sun.

INT.JUPITER TWO

The Robot is rolling toward the com.

THE FREEZING TUBES are quickly being engulfed in flames. Smith
stumbles toward their control station. Begins typing madly.

                      SMITH

          Wake up, damn you. I can't stop this
          infernal contraption on my own.

He SMASHES a glass panel that reads EMERGENCY DEACTIVATE. The figures
inside the lowering tubes glow. All except Judy.

The Robot is before the Com, electricity arcing between his claws.

                      SMITH

          (off the tubes)

          Hurry up. Hurry up.

The Robot FIRES at the main Com, controls EXPLODING everywhere. The
freezing tubes begin to open, the Robot spinning to face them.

John blinks to life first. Emerges, ducking a BLAST of electrical
energy from the Robot, hitting the deck and rolling.

                      JOHN

          Maureen. The children.

Maureen grabs Will and Penny, pulls them down just as the Robot blows
away their tubes.

John pulls a laser pistol from a wall mount.

                      JOHN

          Disengage safety.

                      GUN

          Voiceprint confirmed.

The Robot spins towards John, FIRES an electrical charge - John dodges
at the last instant, the grazing blast burning his silvery suit,
singeing his side, sending into the wall, his gun flying.

                      WILL

          Dad!

Will ducks under his mother's arm, scrambles across the bridge.

                      MAUREEN

          Will, wait.

The Robot FIRES at the scrambling boy but misses, Will disappearing
down the gunny hatch leading to the lower decks.

DON leaps from his tube atop the Robot's back, trying to grab the
Robot's power source. The mechanical monster electrifies his shell,
sending the Major flying.

The Robot turns to Penny and Maureen. Extends his arms toward them.

Electricity arcing between his claws. The two are done for. Maureen
puts her hand over Penny's eyes.

                      MAUREEN

          Look away, baby.

The Robot is about to fire. Suddenly the Robot freezes, his claws
deactivate, his power lights go to stand-by and he stands immobile.

WIDER. Will stands in the b.g., his tiny hacking deck in his hands.

                      WILL

          Robot. Return to your docking bay and
          power down.

                      ROBOT

          Command accepted.

The Robot turns and begins heading for the elevator. All watch in
amazement. Will grins, a familiar mischievous gleam in his eyes.

                      WILL

          If the family won't come to the
          science fair, bring the science fair
          to the family.

An EXPLOSION rocks the ship.

                      PENNY (OVER)

          Mom, look, it's Doctor Smith.

Penny stands over Smith who lays crumpled in the corner. Maureen grabs
an emergency medi-kit from a wall clamp, tosses it to Penny.

                      MAUREEN

          Pulse, respiration and bleeding-

                      PENNY

          Basic triage, lock down and
          stabilize. I know the drill.

John is standing, helps Don to his feet.

                      WEST

          NEXT picnic, no robots.

Don moves fast to the helm. The main view screen is still closed,
covered by giant metal blast shields.

                      WEST

          Communications links are down.

Maureen is at the life sciences console.

                      MAUREEN

          Life support is at ten percent.
          Trying to bring secondary systems on
          line. It's not working.

VIDEO MONITOR-POV. Penny is bandaging Smith's head, her bravado barely
masking her fathoml4ss terror.

                      PENNY

          Explosions rock the ship. Danger is
          everywhere, 'Yet the Space Captive is
          fearless as she...

A console FLARES. Penny fights back tears, terrified.

                      PENNY

          I want to go home now.

Don is at the navigational system.

                      WEST

          Rerouting power from the secondary
          couplings. Try it again.

                      MAUREEN

          Finding a power tap....

Suddenly the lights go on, the air compressors begin to Hiss.

                      MAUREEN

          Life support is back on line.

                      WEST

          I can't get the blast shields open.
          We're flying blind.

Penny in working ever Smith, bandaging his head. She runs stimulator
under his nose. Smith begins to stir, COUGHING.

                      PENNY

          I've got life signs.

          (wincing)

          Boy, somebody could use a breath
          mint.

West turns, spots Smith for the first time.

                      WEST

          (to John)

          Try the emergency back-ups.

Don moves to the fallen figure, lifts him up against the bulkhead.

                      WEST

          Smith, what the hell-

                      SMITH

          I was making a last minute check ...
          someone hit me from behind.

Don almost buys it. Then he notices Smith's hand, grabs it.

BURN-CLOSE. The reprogramming module's distinctive, foreign signature
seared into his flesh.

                      WEST

          Sino-Jordanian technology. You're a
          Goddamned spy.

          (realizing)

          You did this.

Don slams him against the bulkhead, begins dragging him towards the
airlock. The pilot hits a switch. The inner hatch opens.

                      SMITH

          Stop. What are you doing?

                      WEST

          Dropping some extra weight.

                      MAUREEN (OVER)

          Help, somebody. Please.

REVERSE ANGLE

Maureen stands at Judy's freezing tube. The young doctor's cryofield
is sparking on and off.

                      MAUREEN

          The thawing engine in broken. can't
          get her out. She's dying.

Smith uses the distraction to palm-slam Don in the chin, knocking him
backwards. Don staggers, goes again for Smith.

                      SMITH

          Touch me and the girl dies.

Don freezes in his tracks.

                      SMITH

          Your mission physician is indisposed.
          I can save her life. But only if you
          spare mine.

                      WEST

          I Don't deal with dead men.

                      SMITH

          Kill me, I kill the girl. How much is
          your revenge worth, Major? I will, of
          course, need your word as an officer
          that you will let me live.

Don's decision is lighting fast.

                      WEST

          Help her.

                      JOHN

          I've got a com signal.

Suddenly the radio SQUAWKS into life.

                      RADIO

          ...Is Mission Control. Do you read?
          Jupiter Two this is

                      JOHN

          Emergency power's on line. I think I
          can get these blast shields open.

VIEWSCREEN CLOSE. The blast shields part to reveal a giant fiery orb
in their path. They are heading directly for the sun.

                      WEST

          Uh-oh.

INT.-MISSION CONTROL

Noah stands over the Com. The room is a madhouse.

                      NOAH

          Give me a telemetry projection.

Noah looks up at the main monitor. The graphic of the Jupiter Two is
heading towards the graphic of the sun.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

John and Don stand over the Com.

                      NOAH (OVER)

          You're way off course. We show you in
          the sun's gravitational pull.

                      WEST

          How long do we have?

                      NOAH (OVER)

          We count seven minutes before your
          outer hull begins to melt.

DON straps himself into the pilot's chair.

                      WEST

          I'm going to try for the Mercury
          Mines.

SMITH stands at the freezing tube, Penny and Maureen assisting him.

                      SMITH

          I will need Dr. Robinson's portable
          gurney. I believe it is stored in-

                      PENNY

          I'm on it.

Penny races off. Smith begins working the controls to Judy's freezing
tube.

                      MAUREEN

          We trusted you.

          (sinking in)

          You tried to kill us all.

                      SMITH

          Existence offers us nothing if not
          the opportunity for an endless series
          of betrayals.

          (off her stunned expression)

          There's a world behind the world,
          Professor Robinson. Lie once, cheat
          twice and everything becomes clear.
          Do not mistake my deception for a
          character flaw. It is philosophical
          choice, a profound understanding of
          the universe. It is a way of life.

                      MAUREEN

          You're a monster.

                      SMITH

          Perhaps. But I am also the only one
          who can save your daughter's life.

Penny reappears, a case in hand. She presses a button and the case
unfolds into a hovering, gyroscopicaly-leveled gurney.

                      MAUREEN

          Where's Will?

                      PENNY

          He's futzing with that Robot.

                      SMITH

          Alright, Penny dear, I need you to
          short the power on my command.

                      PENNY

          Does he have to call me dear?

                      SMITH

          Professor, if you will assist me in
          lowering the body.

Smith hands Penny a wrench.

                      SMITH

          Penny, dear. Now.

Maureen nods. Penny SLAMS the wrench into the power circuit. The
freezing field FLARES and deactivates, the tube swinging open.

LIFESIGN MONITOR-CLOSE. Flatline.

                      MAUREEN

          She's dying.

Smith and Maureen lower her onto the gurney.

                      SMITH

          Sickbay. Move.

Penny, Maureen and Smith rush the gurney out the blast doors towards
Sickbay just as the ship tilts madly.

AT THE HELM

WINDSCREEN-CLOSE. The sun is growing ever larger.

                      WEST

          Unable to re-route to Mercury. The
          sun's pull is too strong.

          (a beat)

          Noah, I need options.

INT.-MISSION CONTROL

                      NOAH

          Major West we are unable to provide
          contingencies.

          (a beat)

          I'm sorry, Don.

ON SCREEN-THE JUPITER TWO is heading towards the sun.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-SICKBAY

Penny, Smith and Maureen have transferred Judy onto a hi-tech
scanning-bed. A hovering holographic schematic of Judy's physiognomy
appears over her, descends onto her body.

                      SMITH

No cardio-pulmonary or respiratory functions.

                      MAUREEN

          Body temp at 68 Fahrenheit.

                      SMITH

          Get her flight suit off.

Penny unzips the silver material as Smith works the console,
highlighting her holographic heart.

                      SMITH

          Clear.

The holographic image of her heart beats once, then is still.

                      SMITH

          Again. Clear.

The lights flicker on the bio-console, the holograph winks out.

                      SMITH

          Power's down.

                      MAUREEN

          We're losing her.

CHAPTER 10: Initiate Hyperdrive
-------------------------------


INT. -JUPITER TWO

DON and John man the Com. The sun is a raging fireball dead ahead.

                      JOHN

          I've re-routed all secondary systems
          to the main drive.

                      WEST

          She won't budge. Shortest baby sitting
          mission I've ever done.

                      JOHN

          My family's not going die in space.

                      WEST

          I'm open to suggestions.

                      COMPUTER

          Outer hull breach in 30 seconds.

INT.-SICKBAY

Smith begins pumping Judy's chest by hand.

                      SMITH

          Come on, child. Fight. Put a little
          heart in it.

Smith steps back, begins precise, staccato blows to Judy's chest.

                      SMITH

          The life.. .

          (hit )

          I save ...

          (hit)

          may be

          (hit)

          my own.

Smith stops, presses his ear to her chest - Takes her pulse. Smiles.

                      MAUREEN

          Judy? Baby?

A beat. Then Judy opens her eyes, manages a weak smile.

                      JUDY

          You should try to look less worried.
          It has a tendency to spook the
          patients.

                      MAUREEN

          (to Smith)

          Thank you.

Smith holds her gaze, his eyes almost snake-like.

                      SMITH

          You are a good woman, Maureen. Any man
          could see that. I hope I have proven
          the well-being of your family is of
          great importance to me. Perhaps, if
          you convinced your husband to trust
          me...

Maureen stares at him. A beat. She pulls a laser from the wall. Points
it at his forehead.

                      MAUREEN

          Stabilize her, Smith. Because you only
          breathe as long as she does.

INT.-JUPITER TWO BRIDGE

The ship is shaking in the mighty pull of the sun. Don is struggling
to keep the ship stable.

                      COMPUTER

          Heat seal breach in 20 seconds.

                      JOHN

          There's got to be some way to get
          through this.

DON stares at him.

                      WEST

          That's it.

                      JOHN

          What's it?

                      WEST

          We can't get away from the sun. So we
          have to go through it.
          The hyperdrive -

                      JOHN

          Engage the hyperdrive without a gate,
          we could be thrown anywhere in the
          galaxy

                      WEST

          Anywhere but here.

INT.-MISSION CONTROL

                      ANNIE

          We're getting resident radiation
          distortions from the space craft. She
          must be breaking up.

                      NOAH

          Let me see those numbers, Annie.

The Techie hands him a sheet. Noah looks for a beat.

                      NOAH

          Son of a bitch. He's powering up the
          hyperdrive.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

The saucer is elongating slightly, changing its shape as it prepares
to enter hyperspace.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

BRIDGE

Will scrambles onto the bridge, heads towards John who is working the
main control panel.

                      WEST

          Hyperengines coming on line.

                      COMPUTER

          Warning. Heat shield breach.

The sun covers the entire windscreen, a furious landscape of flame.

                      JOHN

          Hyperdrive at 100 percent. Major, you
          have the Com.

                      WEST

          Zero to 20 million miles a second in
          under a minute. Let's see what this
          baby can do.

John takes Will's hand as West engages the hyperdrive.

West, John and Will, are hurled backwards from the sudden
acceleration, sticking to the walls and ceiling respectively.

INT.-SICKBAY

Maureen and Penny watch as Smith swaddles Judy in thermal blanket.
Suddenly, Maureen, Penny, and Smith fly against the walls. Judy is
held in place by the gurney straps.

INT.-MISSION CONTROL

The graphic of the space craft is beginning to flicker as it merges
with the graphic of the sun.

                      ANNIE

          We can't keep a fix on her, sir. She's
          starting to disappear.

Noah stares at the screen.

                      NOAH

          Godspeed.

EXT.-SPACE

The Jupiter Two flies into the mighty ball of the sun. And just as it
reaches the tallest of the gaseous mountains, the ship becomes
translucent, falling through the orb, elongating and then vanishing in
a sudden star of hyperspace.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

THE WINDSCREEN. The sky breaks apart giving way to a starfield.

EXT.-DEEP SPACE

Quiet. Empty. Suddenly space distorts and, in a sudden flash, a ship
appears, hurling into the darkness. The Jupiter Two.

The Jupiter Two comes to rest at the edge of an alien, twin starred
solar system, near a giant crimson planet.

CHAPTER 11: Lost in Space
-------------------------


INT.-JUPITER TWO-INFIRMARY

Maureen kneels before Penny and Will, making sure they're okay. Smith
stands silently in the b.g. Judy's gurney is empty. John ENTERS, his
face wrought with fatherly concern.

                      JOHN

          Is everyone okay?

                      MAUREEN

          All in one piece. Although Major West
          has the most puzzling definition of a
          smooth ride.

                      JOHN

          Judy? Where's Judy?

Just then Judy emerges through a door, zipping up her flight suit.

                      JUDY

          Boy either I cut down on the coffee
          or sew in a flap. It's hell getting
          in and out of this thing.

                      JOHN

          Are you-

                      JUDY

          Vitals are normal. Pulse and
          respiration seem to be-

                      JOHN

          Baby, are you okay?

                      JUDY

          I'm fine Daddy really.

John holds her close, spared a father's worst fear.

                      SMITH

          Will every disaster be an excuse for
          familial sentiment? Please tell me
          now so I may gather up a liberal
          supply of space sickness bags.

Don turns towards Smith. Maureen steps between them.

                      MAUREEN

          What happened, John? Where are we?

INT.-JUPITER TWO-BRIDGE

Don in at the navigational holograph, patching sparking wires. The
rest of the crew emerge onto the bridge.

                      WEST

          You had me worried, Doc. Nice to see
          you thawed.

                      JUDY

          Smart maneuver with the hyper-drive.

                      WEST

          A fighter who thinks, what do you
          know? You're just in time for the
          show.

Don makes a connection. The pedestal powers up, a holograph of the
Jupiter Two appearing over its surface.

                      WEST

          Computer, map our current location.

HOLOGRAPHIC PEDESTAL-CLOSE. The area around the Jupiter Two is now
filled with a holographic representation of the alien solar system.

                      JOHN

          See anything familiar?

Don just shakes his head.

                      COMPUTER

          Searching for recognizable
          constellations.

          (a beat)

          Unable to locate.

                      JOHN

          This computer has star maps of the
          entire known galaxy.

                      PENNY

          We're lost, aren't we?

Judy wraps her arm around her sister.

                      WEST

          What the hell is that?

VIEWSCREEN- CLOSE. The nearest planet is starting to glow. Suddenly a
distortion field begins to emanate from the alien world. The edges of
space seem to sear away, leaving a glowing portal.

                      JOHN

          Any effect on the ship?

                      WEST

          No.

VIEWSCREEN -CLOSE. All the planets and constellations beyond the
portal appear to be in different places.

                      JOHN

          (off the navigational hologram)

          All the planets have moved.

                      WEST

          And where did that come from?

CHAPTER 12: The Proteus
-----------------------


EXT.-SPACE

Breaking the inner edge of the portal, a long silver space needle
catches the light from the dual suns.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

The crew man their stations. Only Will is absent as they the ship
maneuver around the portal.

VIEWSCREEN -CLOSE. As they, move behind the portal it seems to
disappear, showing only the blackness of space. No ship beyond.

                      WEST

          It's gone.

                      JOHN

          No. Go back in front of it.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

As the ship moves back in front of the portal, the hole in space is
visible again, the giant probe ship revealed once more within...

                      JOHN

          It's a hole in space. A doorway.

                      WEST

          A doorway to where?

                      JOHN

          If we want to reach that ship, we're
          going to have to find out.

EXT.-SPACE

The Jupiter Two flies through the pulsing hole in space.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

The giant, silver ship looms in the windscreen.

                      MAUREEN

          No apparent effects on the ship.

                      WEST

          I'm hailing on all frequencies. No
          response.

                      JOHN

          There are some markings on the
          starboard side. Can you throw some
          light on her?

                      WEST

          Don't know if the exterior spots are
          working.- There we go.

THE WINDSCREEN-CLOSE. Powerful spotlights hit the ship.

WEST AND JOHN-CLOSE. And really surprised.

                      WEST

          If this in all a dream, why can't
          there be more girls?

THE SPACESHIP-CLOSE. Essentially a needle covered with metal scallops.
On its hull, under the legend PROTEUS, an American flag.

                      WEST

          I've never seen a design like this.
          what are those scales on her hull?

                      JOHN

          How could Earth launch a ship this
          massive and neither of us know about
          it? ... It just doesn't make sense.

                      WEST

          These scanners are damaged, I'm
          getting inconsistent life signs but
          they may be sensor ghosts.

                      JOHN

          Maybe her computer's still up. I'm
          trying standard remote access codes.

ON SCREEN-A docking ring on the giant ship comes to life, giant floods
coming to life, the docking aperture rotating open.

                      WEST

          What do you know?

EXT.-SPACE

The Jupiter Two heads towards the giant ship.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

                      JOHN

          Can you give me some light on the
          secondary docking ring?

A smaller docking ring is illuminated on the viewscreen.

                      WEST

          What do you make of that?

Attached to the starboard docking ring is another, smaller craft. Its
snaking anthropomorphic lines are not of human design.

                      MAUREEN

          Boys, I think we're having a close
          encounter.

EXT.-SPACE

The Jupiter moves into the docking ring of the giant ship.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

(OVER) a giant THUD as the Jupiter Two docks with the probe.

                      ROBOT (OVER)

          Crush.

REVERSE ANGLE. The Robot in rolling in through the doorway, arms
waving wildly before him.

                      ROBOT

          Crush! Kill! Destroy!

Don and John are up fast. But the Robot just rolls to a stop. Will
steps from behind the automaton, his hacker's deck in his hand.

He pulls a tiny mic from his deck. Lifts it to his lips.

                      WILL

          Crush. Kill. Destroy.

                      ROBOT

          Crush! Kill! Destroy!

Will points to several jury-rigged modifications.

                      WILL

          I hacked into his CPU, bypassed his
          main operating system and accessed
          his sub-routines. He's basically
          running on remote control.

All stare at him. Penny finally speaks.

                      PENNY

          Show off.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-CREW QUARTERS-LATER

Penny stands guard, a rifle in her hand, talking into her recorder.

                      PENNY

          And so the Space Captive finds
          herself helping the Robinsons by
          guarding the traitor. And she finds-

Penny's VOICE trails off. Stares out the porthole. Endless space.

                      PENNY

          She finds that out here, in the dark
          and cold, she's scared, and she's
          kind of glad they're all together.

Just then Don approaches, a silver bundle under his arm.

                      PENNY

          Identify yourself, soldier.

                      WEST

          West, Major, United Space Force,
          requesting permission to see the
          prisoner.

Penny steps aside.

                      PENNY

          Proceed Major West.

Don smiles, winks at her, going through the door.

                      PENNY

          Ouch. Could he be cuter? I don't
          think so.

INT.-SMITH'S CELL

Actually a med-lab. Smith turns to face Don an he ENTERS.

                      SMITH

          These quarters are totally
          unacceptable. I demand-

Don tosses his bundle on the seat. A silver flight suit.

                      WEST

          We're going to check out the probe
          ship. Maybe we can figure out how
          they got here. And how to get home.

                      SMITH

          Ta-ta. Have a wonderful trip.

                      WEST

          You're coming with us.

                      SMITH

          Out of the question. I'm a doctor not
          a space explorer. You and-

But Don is in his face in a heartbeat.

                      WEST

          What you are is a murderous saboteur
          and I am not leaving you on this ship
          so you can do more harm than you've
          already caused.

                      SMITH

          I absolutely refuse-

                      WEST

          (closer)

          Give me an excuse to kill you.
          Please.

Smith stares at him a beat. Then he smiles, looks to the flight suit.

                      SMITH

          Silver always was my color.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-LOWER DECKS

Will stands in front of the Robot, polishing a blast mark clean.

                      WILL

          When boarding a mysterious
          spacecraft, it always pays to look
          your best.

John enters, removes a gun from the weapons locker.

                      JOHN

          Deactivate safety.

                      GUN

          Voiceprint confirmed. Rifle is
          active.

GUN-CLOSE. A small light goes from red to green.

                      JOHN

          You did a good job up there son. You
          saved us all.

                      WILL

          Thanks.

An awkward silence hangs between them.

                      JOHN

          I know I haven't around much these
          days.That we haven't had time to-

                      WEST (OVER)

          Professor, we're ready.

John looks at his boy Will in silent.

                      JOHN

          Will, you're the most important thing
          in the world to me. I hope one day
          you'll be able to see that.

With that, John walks out. Will stares after him. Faces the Robot.

                      WILL

          Take care of my dad, okay Robot?

Will works his remote, sending the Robot towards the bridge.

INT.-PROBE SHIP

A long dark corridor. Slowly the ambient lights come up. A door opens
to reveal Smith, John, Don, Judy and the Robot, stepping out of the
docking chamber, the airlock closing in the b.g.

                      JUDY

          The air is stale. Old.

                      SMITH

          That's the smell of ghosts.

Don walks to a computer panel set into the wall. Begins typing.

                      WEST

          I'm interfacing with the on board
          computer... Odd.

                      JOHN

          Not working?

                      WEST

          No, it's just, I don't know, too
          fast. Most of the systems are down.

The Robot rolls deeper into the alien ship. The others follow. More
lights flicker into life, illuminating the long corridor ahead.

                      JUDY

          Motion sensors are still working.

                      WEST (OVER)

          What do you make of this?

Smith, John and Judy join Don at one of the bulkhead walls.

                      JOHN

          Some kind of hieroglyphics.

WALL-CLOSE. A series of hieroglyphics are scrawled on the hull wall.
The sketches tell a story.

HIEROGLYPH-CLOSE. The alien craft docks with the giant ship.

SECOND HIEROGLYPH-CLOSE-A trio of inhuman bipedal stick figures enter
the giant ship.

THIRD HIEROGLYPH-CLOSE. The shape of a sun or a disc, from which juts
many legs. This final hieroglyph is circled in a clotted red
substance. Don touches the stain.

CHAPTER 13: Exploration
-----------------------


                      JUDY

          If I didn't know better I'd say this
          is blood.

                      SMITH

          I know an omen when I see one. I
          suggest a hasty retreat.

                      WEST

          Just imagine we're retreating in the
          opposite direction. Now, move it.

Don shoves Smith forward with the butt of his laser rifle, the group
heading deeper into the quiet ship.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

Will watches through the Robot's POV, toggling to move the automaton
forward. A readout marked AUDIO flashes. Will turns up a volume
control. (OVER) the sound of a slow, steady DRIP.

                      WILL

          Dad, do you....

INT.-PROBE SHIP

                      ROBOT

          ... Hear something?

The Robot turns, begins heading further down the corridor. (OVER) now
DRIPPING can be heard by all.

                      SMITH

          Like the drip, drip, drip of blood..

                      WEST

          You really need to shut up.

                      JOHN

          (pointing)

          Here.

THE CEILING shows a jagged hole, covered with some kind of viscous
membrane, leading to the dark of a service tunnel above. The membrane
DRIPS steadily onto the floor below.

                      JUDY

          That material appears biological.

                      SMITH

          Nothing good will come of this.

                      WEST

          What makes you such an expert?

                      SMITH

          Trust me, Major. Evil knows evil.

                      JOHN

          Let's find the bridge. Maybe we can
          get some answers.

They head off. HOLD on the dripping membrane.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

Maureen is at the main sensor console working an instrument panel.

Penny is hanging upside down in a harness overhead, using a laser
welder on a giant mass of exposed ceiling circuitry.

                      PENNY

          Try it now, Mom.

Maureen throws a switch. The panel lights up, then goes dead.

                      PENNY

          Damn.

INT.-SHIP-WALKING

The boarding party stand at the end of the corridor. Don presses a
wall panel. The giant doors hiss open to REVEAL...

INT.-MAIN BRIDGE

Immense. Empty. And battle torn. Sections of the controls have been
blown away. Blast scoring mars the walls.

                      JUDY

          What the hell happened in here?

                      WEST

          Some kind of fire fight. Look at this
          technology. I've seen some of this
          before. On the drawing boards.

Smith has moved off slightly, wandered over to a STORAGE ALCOVE.
Within, a row of docked Robots, larger and sleeker then ours.

John and Don are powering up the Com, console lights coming on.

                      JOHN

          Can you bring up the Captain's log?

                      WEST

          The data has degraded. I'm going try
          and gather any fragments I can. There
          isn't much, but ... here we go.

MAIN SCREEN-CLOSE. Fills with snow. Then a figure can be seen. It's
Jab. But his hair is grey.

                      WEST

          Jeb.

                      JEB

          The hyperspace tracker seems to be
          functioning...

          (static)

          No sign of the Jupiter Two...

                      JEB

          (static)

          Have exceeded our mission timetable
          by two...

          (static)

          I'm not willing to give up. Don would
          keep looking for me.

                      WEST

          That's it. The rest of the data is
          totally corrupted.

IN THE ALCOVE, Smith frees a power pack from one of the robots. Slips
it into the sleeve cuff of his field suit.

                      WEST

          This doesn't make sense. How could
          they launch a rescue mission for us
          when we've only been lost a day?

Judy stands by the life sciences panel.

                      JUDY

          I've got something here.

A turning holograph appears over the console panel. A degraded image
of a trembling, viscous pouch. Tiny shapes move within.

                      JUDY

          They brought it up from the planet's
          surface. It's seems to be some sort
          of egg sack.

Don notices Smith's standing in the storage alcove.

                      WEST

          Smith, step away from there.

                      SMITH

          Happy to oblige, Major. Although I
          don't think it's me you should be
          worrying about. But rather this.

In the corner of the ceiling, another membrane covered hole.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

Will is at his station, watching Don and John via the Robot's POV.

                      WILL

          I'm detecting motion. Behind you...

INT.-PROBE SHIP BRIDGE

A towering SHADOW shoots past the open doorway.

                      JOHN

          After it. Move.

          (to the Robot)

          Bring Smith.

INT.-PROBE SHIP-CORRIDOR

Don races down the corridor. The walls are matted with flowering
plants. Vines twist into a carpet covering the metallic floor.

THE SCURRYING SHAPE, about the size of a small dog, shoots out from
behind a bulkhead, disappearing into the lush greenery.

Don pushes forward through the ever deepening brush until he comes to
a door. A plaque reads HYDROPONICS LAB. He races inside.

INT.-HYDROPONICS LAB

A jungle. John and Judy arrive behind Don.

                      WEST

          This explains where all the plants
          came from.

                      JUDY

          Growth like this would take decades.

The Robot arrives through the lab door, carrying Smith in one claw.

                      SMITH

          Unhand me, you mechanical moron.

Don's eyes fix behind Smith's head.

                      WEST

          Don't move.

                      SMITH

          I am sick of your terrorism. If you
          are going to kill me, be done with
          it. Otherwise I will insist you treat
          me with the respect and-

                      WEST

          (like steel)

          I said don't move.

Smith is suddenly silent. Don's hand shoots out, just missing Smith's
head, disappearing into the brush behind him, leaves flying, as-he
pulls from its hiding place a small creature.

About the size of a large stuffed bear, spiny skin going from leaf
color to red, shaped like a rhesus monkey but covered with the scales
of a tiny dragon and bright yellow cat's eyes.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

Will is watching through the Robot's eyes.

                      WILL

          Neat.

INT.-PROBE SHIP-HYDROPONICS GARDEN

West stares down at the creature in his hand, now a calmer and more
friendly blue. Judy approaches.

                      JUDY

          Well, who do we have here?

As the beast struggles in Don's hand it changes color, chameleon like,
trying to hide. No luck. Don holds fast.

                      WEST

          Easy there, little buddy. No one's
          going to hurt you.

                      SMITH

          How do you know it won't hurt us?

Don has begun stroking the creature's head. After a beat, the small
beast begins to COO and emit small BLIPPING sounds.

                      JUDY

          Looks like you've made a friend. You
          have a good bedside manner, Major.

                      WEST

          I'm going to let that one go.

                      SMITH

          How charming. Doctor Dolittle of
          outer space.

                      JUDY

          Where do you think it came from?

                      JOHN

          It's possible this is one of the
          creatures represented in the
          hieroglyphs we saw on the wall. It
          must have been their ship attached to
          the other docking ring.

The beast has moved onto Don's shoulder, is now clutching there,
burying its tiny face into his neck. Don can't help but LAUGH.

                      WEST

          It looks like a child.

                      SMITH

          If so, my dear Major, what do you
          suppose happened to its parents?

                      JOHN

          Let's get back to the bridge.

As they leave, a dark shape skitters across the ceiling in the
background. Ominous. Unseen.

CHAPTER 14: Giant Spiders!
--------------------------


INT.-JUPITER TWO

Penny is still hanging overhead.

                      PENNY

          I think I've got it.

The sensor console comes back to life, displays lighting, status
lights going green. Maureen stares at the monitor.

                      MAUREEN

          That's strange.

SCREEN-CLOSE. Revealed in the sensor scan, the scallops pulse with
ambient heat. Penny lands beside her.

                      PENNY

          Those scales are giving off heat.

INT.-PROBE SHIP-BRIDGE

John is at the Com.

                      JOHN

          I've tapped into the internal sensor
          array. Besides us, this ship is
          totally deserted.

                      SMITH

          A ghost ship.

Don is sitting with the tiny creature. He pulls a ration pack from his
pocket. Turns it over in his hand.

                      WEST

          And the flavor of the day is ...
          banana/beef. Who thinks up these
          combinations?

The creature stares at him intently as he tears open the foil lip,
sucks a bit LOUDLY. Judy can't help but smile at him.

                      WEST

          MM. Good.

                      SMITH

          Major West, I highly recommend you
          never breed. That by the way is my
          medical opinion.

Don glares at him, hands the tiny creature the pouch. The creature
looks at it, emits a small BLIP, takes a tentative suck. Its eyes
widen in delight as it begins to suck the ration pack.

                      WEST

          Little thing was hungry.

                      SMITH

          Good Lord, who will - spare us the
          tyranny of the sentimental?

(OVER) a distant, high pitched WHINE.

                      PENNY

          Do you hear something?

Suddenly the creature begins to SCREAM, leaping on Smith's back,
clinging to his neck for dear life.

                      SMITH

          Get this infernal creature off me.

The WHINE is growing louder. it seems to be coming from above.

THE CEILING-CLOSE. There, in the corner, the membrane covering the
hole seems to be trembling.

                      WEST

          This can't be good.

                      SMITH

          You have a remarkably keen sense
          of the obvious.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

Maureen stands with Penny at the main sensor station.

                      MAUREEN

          John, get the hell out of there.

ON SCREEN. The silver disks on the hull of the probe ship are
beginning to move, rising to stand now on spindraled legs.

EXT.-PROBE SHIP

Heads and legs emerging, the disks reveal themselves to be armor
plated spiders. The monsters find viscous holes in the outer hull and
push through, vanishing into the probe ship.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

(OVER) a THUD. The Jupiter Two shakes, as if struck.

                      MAUREEN

          Give me an external view.

Penny works the console.

ON SCREEN. Spiders are leaping from the probe onto the Jupiter Two.

INT.-PROBE SHIP-BRIDGE

The lizard monkey's SCREAMING has reached new heights of hysteria. A
shape begins to push through the viscous bole in the ceiling.

What bursts in is a monster out of nightmare. Nearly half the size of
a human, shiny metallic body from which wet, spider-like limbs extend.
A fang covered vAw opens below ravenous, green eyes.

Don draws his laser and FIRES, but the blast only reflects off the
metallic surface of its torso, forcing the creature to retract its
limbs and eyes, hiding within its protective shell.

                      JOHN

          Evacuate. Now!

The team races for the door as several more spiders drop through the
hole in the ceiling, landing in the bridge and scampering fast towards
our fleeing heros.

INT.-PROBE SHIP-TUNNELS

The boarding party race down the corridor. The spiders are bounding
after them, using walls, floor, and ceiling with equal facility.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

Will is madly working his keyboard, controlling the fleeing Robot.

                      WILL

          This joy stick is too slow. Activate
          holographic interface.

A holographic robot appears on the bridge. Will steps inside, the
image now moving with his body. He spins, facing backwards, firing.

INT.-PROBE SHIP

The Robot is holding up the rear, its torso swiveled backwards so it
can retreat and FIRE simultaneously.

The Robot's plasma BLASTS have more effect than-the lasers, blowing
the spiders into tiny pieces of inhuman flesh and metal.

But more monsters are pouring through the holes in the corridor
ceiling, some giving chasing, others swarming injured comrades.

Judy watches as several spiders devour their fallen brethren.

                      JUDY

          They eat their wounded.

Our heroes race to a nexus, corridors leading off in all directions.
Spiders are dropping from the ceiling around them.

                      JOHN

          Which way?

INT. -JUPITER TWO

WILL-POV. A graphic map flashes within the holograph.

                      WILL

          Turn left.

INT.-PROBE SHIP-CORRIdOR

                      ROBOT

          Now right.

The spiders are swarming, closing fast.

                      JOHN

          Got to seal the bulkhead.

                      WEST

          The door control is at the other and
          of the corridor.

                      JUDY

          The fire sensor.

Judy pulls her gun, FIRES, hitting a ceiling sensor at the end of the
corridor. Blast doors SLAM, sealing out most of the spiders.

DON-CLOSE. Impressed.

BLAST DOORS-CLOSE. Metal teeth begin tearing through the steel.

Our group has made it to the door to the docking bay. They rush in,
the Robot coming through the open doorway last and holding there.

INT.-PROBE SHIP-DOCKING BAY

Don activates the airlock to the Jupiter, the batch slowly opening.

The Robot stands in the doorway to the docking bay, FIRING at the
spiders as they come down the hall, blowing them away. More pour
through the now rending blast doors. There are just too many, rolling
towards them now like a single, shifting mass of death.

                      SMITH

          Open, damn you.

                      WEST

          It's cycling a vacuum check. There is
          no way to speed up the protocols.

                      SMITH

          Fools. I warned you not to come
          aboard this cursed craft. You've
          killed us. You've killed us all.

Judy throws him, hard, into the wall.

                      JUDY

          Shut up.

                      WEST

          Now that's a bedside manner.

The first spiders reach the Robot, leaping onto its metal bull.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

Maureen and Penny are at the Com, powering up the engines. Will is
within the holograph, fighting off the spiders.

                      WILL

          Charge.

INT.-PROBE SHIP-DOCKING BAY

The Robot's shell electrifies, the spiders recoiling.

The airlock has opened enough for our heroes to duck inside.

                      JOHN

          Will, get the Robot in here.

The Robot stands in the open portal, covered by spiders, their fangs
shredding his hull, his electrical charge beginning to SHORT.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

Will is throwing off the monsters, Extending the Robot's antenna
spikes and scanner dishes to skewer spiders that are squeezing by.

                      WILL

          I can't move him without letting the
          spiders into the ship.

INT.-PROBE SHIP-DOCKING BAY

                      JOHN

          Leave him behind.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

                      WILL

          I'm sorry, Robot.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-DOCKING BAY

A spider pushes past the Robot, head slipping around his metallic
body, bent on reaching the airlock and the crew within.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-AIRLOCK

                      JOHN

          Seal it. Now!

Don hits a switch just as a spider breaks free, rushing towards the
dropping airlock door. Smith recoils from the swiping talon.

SMITH'S BACK-CLOSE. A tiny rand and beneath, a razor thin incision.

THE DOOR drops, the spider's arm, still twitching, severed inside the
airlock.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

The inner airlock door Opens. The crew tumble in.

                      JOHN

          Get us out of here.

Don is already powering up the ship's engines as Smith tries
separating himself from the tiny lizard monkey.

                      SMITH

          Get this cloying gargoyle off of me.

He throws the beast hard across the bridge. The creature hits the
wall, SCREECHING, begins racing across consoles.

John has strapped in beside Don.

                      JOHN

          Get me an external view.

A MONITOR shows the hull of the Jupiter Two. More spiders are leaping
onto the ship, attaching themselves to the hull.

                      JOHN

          Prepare to disengage.

THE LIZARD MONKEY skitters up the back of Penny's chair, over her
head, getting tangled in her hair before jumping into her lap.

                      PENNY

          Get it off me. Get it off.

Penny in frantically wiping the hair from her face. The tiny creature
on her lap begins a perfect imitation of Penny.

Don releases the docking ring, glances at the Monitor. The hull of the
ship is now entirely covered with spiders.

                      WEST

          Initiating separation.

LIZARD MONKEY'S EYES widen in terror as the ship SHAKES, burying its
head in Penny's chest. A beat. Then Penny hugs the tiny beast.

                      PENNY

          It's okay. Everything's going to be
          alright.

But she sounds anything but sure.

                      WEST

          We're clear. Everybody hang on.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

The Jupiter Two's engines BLOW, peeling into the endless night.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

(OVER) ALARMS sound.

                      JUDY

          I think those things were using the
          probe ship as a way to trap food.

                      WEST

          That I s probably what happened to
          the monkey's parents. We were going
          to be desert.

                      MAUREEN

          But what happened to the crew?

                      JOHN

          Nothing good.

                      WEST

          We're not out of the woods yet.

ON SCREEN. The hull of the Jupiter Two is covered with the giant
spiders, their teeth cutting through the outer hull.

                      WEST

          Let's see how these monsters like a
          hundred thousand volts.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

The hull glows with electricity. The spiders fly off into space, their
limbs and heads retracting.

                      WEST

          And the crowd goes wild.

                      SMITH

          Recall your nightmares from
          childhood, Major. Monsters are rarely
          so easily dissuaded.

(OVER) a THUNK. Then another. A third.

ON SCREEN-The spiders shoot webs from their bellies, attaching to the
Jupiter, land on the hull again, re-extending their limbs, starting to
burrow once more.

                      WEST

          Persistent bastards.

                      JOHN

          Can you hit them again?

                      WEST

          Every time I electrify the hull, I'm
          draining our systems. Once or twice
          more and we're going to be dead in
          space.

                      SMITH

          A fate I fear may be inevitable one
          way or another.

Maureen emerges from the airlock holding the spider's severed limb in
metal tongs. Carries it to her life sciences analyzer.

                      JOHN

          That's the same expression you had
          when my mother came to stay with us.

MAUREEN'S MONITOR-CLOSE. A graphic of the severed spider leg. A small
line begins to extrapolate to the rest of the figure. Musculature and
flesh are drawn in on the screen.

                      MAUREEN

          DNA extrapolation - coming up.
          Silicone based. Admantium shell and
          lack of respiratory system suggest an
          ability to live in deep space. Tiny
          front brain implies communal
          relationships. More like bees.

VIEWS CREEN -CLOSE. More and more spider are spiraling from the probe
ship, all heading toward the Jupiter Two.

                      WEST

          There are thousands of those things

Maureen is working the COMPUTER.

                      MAUREEN

          They may be attracted to heat and
          light.

Don begins typing.

                      WEST

          With the right command codes, I can
          light up the probe ship from here.

MONITOR-CLOSE. More spiders are hitting the bull.

                      WEST

          Damn. No response.

                      JOHN

          Command codes are sequenced. Try the next series.

                      WEST

          But they won't work until the next
          fleet of ships are built. That's at
          least two years away.

                      JOHN

          Just do it.

Don begins entering command codes.

The mighty probe ship begins to power up, engines glowing red as they
begin their initial BURN.

                      WEST

          How did you know?

                      JOHN

          Think about it, Don. The ships's
          advanced technology. Your friend
          looking old. What if that ship is
          from our future?

                      COMPUTER

          Warning. Outer hull has been
          compromised.

SCREEN-CLOSE. Spiders are eating through the outer hull.

                      MAUREEN

          It's not working.

                      JOHN

          Can you get the fusion drive on line?

EXT.-SPACE

THE PROBE SHIP'S fusion drives FIRE. A few of the spiders divert back
toward the probe ship. But most still head for the Jupiter.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

                      WEST

          Let's turn up the heat.

Don engages the THRUSTERS, grabs the throttle.

EXT.-SPACE

The Jupiter Two banks toward the probe ship, heading directly for the
wake of the fusion drives.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

                      COMPUTER (OVER)

          Warning. Inner hull breach in twenty
          seconds.

                      JOHN

          Give them a little encouragement.

                      WEST

          Electrifying outer hull ... now.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

The outer bull flashes with electricity, the spiders jumping off. Don
pilots the craft directly through the wake of the fusion drive.

The spiders jump off, begin attaching themselves to the nacelles of
the giant probe ship.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

ON SCREEN the giant spiral of spiders in now heading back towards the
giant probe ship.

                      JOHN

          Get us out of here. Fast.

Don looks at John a beat, then he begins working the controls.

                      JOHN

          What are you doing?

                      WEST

          Never leave an enemy stronghold
          intact. One of your father's first
          rules of engagement.

Don hits a button. On the remote control console a readout begins to
flash. The message is simple: FUSION DRIVE-OVERLOAD.

                      JOHN

          Don, stop. That's a direct order. We
          might need to salvage-

                      WEST

          This is a military emergency. That
          means I'm in command.

                      JOHN

          Don, no. I'm ordering you-

                      WEST

          I hate spiders.

Don hits a button. The panel light flashes: OVERLOAD.

                      WEST

          Hang on, it I a gonna be a bumpy
          ride.

Don angles the ship away, punching the thrusters as the probe ship's
engines begins to glow.

EXT.-SPACE

The probe ship's nuclear core overloads. The engines begin to glow,
venting plasma and then EXPLODE like a nascent star.

THE BLAST WAVE spreads across space, vaporizing the spiders.

THE BLAST WAVE hits the Jupiter Two.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

The ship is buffeted by the shock wave.

                      WEST

          I can't hold her.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

The ship is knocked into the atmosphere of the giant planet below.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

Don is struggling to keep control.

                      WEST

          We're going down.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

The ship is hurling toward the planet's cloud obscured surface.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

The windscreen is filled with a RUSHING BLIZZARD.

                      WEST

          Can't get the stabilizers on line.

                      JOHN

          Pull up. Pull up.

                      WEST

          Really? No kidding? Thanks.

WINDSCREEN- CLOSE. The storm clouds suddenly PART TO REVEAL ... A
GIANT SNOW COVERED MOUNTAIN RANGE.

Don banks the controls.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

The ship tilts on its side, passing between two snowy peaks, still
plunging towards the planet's wintry surface below.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

                      WEST

          I'm reading a clearing ahead. I'm
          going to try and make it.

EXT.-PLANET'S SURFACE

The Jupiter Two BLOWS over a carpet of snowy treetops, the canopy of
leaves bursting into flames from the friction of the hull.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

The surface is coming up fast.

                      WEST

          Got to slow us down.

EXT.-PLANET'S SURFACE

The Jupiter Two hits the surf ace of the water and skips, once twice,
three times across the alien sea.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

                      WEST

          Brace for impact!

The ship SMASHES into a crater miles long, PLOWING through rock and
vegetation, finally coming to rest near one of the crater walls.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

Still. Automatic fire systems spray gas everywhere. only the dimmest
emergency lights cast any glow.

                      JOHN

          Everybody, by the numbers.

Maureen straightens, rubs her neck.

                      MAUREEN

          Life Sciences, still breathing.

                      JUDY

          Mission medical, I'm alive.

                      WILL

          Me too. Robotics, I mean.

                      PENNY

          Video Mechanics, okay.

                      SMITH

          I'm alive, Major West's poor excuse
          for piloting skills not withstanding.

                      WEST

          Let's take a look.

Don hits a switch, the windshield de-icing, becoming clear.

                      PENNY

          I don't think we're in Kansas
          anymore.

REVERSE ANGLE

Before them lies the crater, snow covered floor spreading out towards
a distant horizon stained red by two hanging crimson suns.

CHAPTER 15: Follow Orders!
--------------------------


EXT. -ALIEN LANDSCAPE-NIGHT

The moonless sky is filled with an utterly alien starfield. The
Jupiter Two sits near the wall of the crater, its tiny lights fighting
the otherworldly darkness.

                      JOHN (OVER)

          You violated a direct order.

INT.-ENGINE ROOM

Cavernous. John and Don stand by the giant drive engines. Don is
holding a cylinder containing a mixture of power chips, some glowing
with radioactive fire, others dull and charred as coal.

                      WEST

          About half the core material is
          burned out. We'll never generate
          enough power to break orbit.

                      JOHN

          I told you not to blow that ship's
          reactors and you did it anyway.

                      WEST

          Come on, Professor, give it a rest. I
          was technically still in command.

                      JOHN

          Don't hand me that. I'm commander of
          this mission.

                      WEST

          Look, no offense, but you're an
          egghead with an honorary rank. No one
          ever intended you to handle combat
          situations. You're spouting some
          nonsense about- time travel while
          those spiders posed a continuing
          threat. I made a judgement call and
          if I have to I'll make it again.
          Hell, you of all people should
          understand that. If your father were
          here-

                      JOHN

          My father is not here. My father is
          dead, killed in one of his combat
          missions you so admire. My family is
          on this ship And you're going to
          follow my orders. Whether you agree
          with them or not. Is that clear,
          Major?

Don's face is right up in John's.

                      WEST

          Save the speeches. I like you. But
          the fate of the Earth is at stake
          here. I'm going to do whatever I
          think it takes to ensure the success
          of this mission. With or without your
          help. Is that clear, Professor?

The two are too close to do anything but kiss or fight. Kissing seems
less than likely.

                      MAUREEN (OVER)

          Am I interrupting something?

WIDER. Maureen stands in the doorway.

                      MAUREEN

          No. Really. I think you two should go
          ahead and slug it out. I mean, here
          we are stranded on an alien world and
          you boys want to get into a pissing
          contest. So please, go for it. I'll
          have Judy down here in a heartbeat to
          declare you both unfit and I'll take
          over this mission. Now I don't want
          to hear another word from you two
          until you can play nice. Is that
          clear?

                      JOHN WEST

          Maureen- Listen-

                      MAUREEN

          Not another word.

          (a beat)

          Better. Now if you've finished hosing
          down the decks with testosterone, I
          suggest you come with me. I may have
          found a way to get us off this
          planet.

Maureen turns on her heal and EXITS. The two men exchange a look.

                      WEST

          Wow.

                      JOHN

          Tell me about it.

They head after her.

CHAPTER 18: Danger Will! (Out of Sequence in screenplay.)
------------------------

INT:-WILL'S CABIN

Will sits working over his hacker's deck. (OVER) STATIC.

                      WILL

          Can you hear me? Robot?

Will tunes the deck. More STATIC. Then...

                      ROBOT

          Systems error. Robot unable to
          register neural net outputs. Unable
          to locate motor controls. Unable-

                      WILL

          Calm down. Your body was destroyed in
          the conflict with the space spiders.
          Do you remember?

                      ROBOT

          Affirmative.

                      WILL

          But I downloaded your neural net.

                      ROBOT

          Robot tried to destroy the Robinson
          family. Why would Will Robinson save
          Robot's personality? Your actions do
          not compute.

                      WILL

          I guess sometimes friendship means
          acting with your heart, not your
          head.

                      ROBOT

          Logic error. Friendship does not
          compute.

                      WILL

          Don't worry, Robot. Im going to build
          you a new body. I promise.

Will turns to face a pile of pirated components from various par of
the ship. He lifts a circular bubble of diodes. Smiles.

                      WILL

          Mom always said I should try to make
          new friends.

CHAPTER 15: Follow Orders! * return to CHAPTER
--------------------------


INT.-BRIDGE

Maureen stands at her life sciences station with John and Don.

                      MAUREEN

          The atmosphere here can sustain human
          life. I've located 500 Rads
          radioactive material a mile north.

                      JOHN

          That's at least what we'd need to get
          the core functioning again.

John looks out the viewscreen at the alien night. Turns to Don.

                      JOHN

          We'll set off at daybreak. it'll be
          safer. Those are my orders, Major.

                      WEST

          I agree with your recommendation,
          Professor.

                      MAUREEN

          Dtente is a beautiful thing.

INT.-SICK BAY

Judy examines the lizard monkey. Penny strokes the tiny creature,
producing a string of BLIPS.

                      PENNY

          What's the diagnosis, Doc? Is it
          cowboy or ballerina on Halloween?

                      JUDY

          Right now she's a girl. But I think
          your little pal here is from a
          self-replicating species. At
          different stages of life she, or he,
          probably alternates sexes.

                      PENNY

          Imagine the savings on dating outfits
          alone.

The tiny creature has begun playing with an aural scanner.

                      PENNY

          Can I keep her?

                      JUDY

          Penny, you've never taken care of a
          thing in your life besides yourself.

                      PENNY

          Please. She's all alone. I promise
          I'll look after her. She needs me.

                      JUDY

          ...The moment you misplace her, or
          forget to feed her, we leave her on
          this planet where she can live in the
          wild. I'm not kidding Penny.

And with that Judy EXITS. Penny sits, stroking the tiny creature.

                      PENNY

          We're both a long way from home,
          aren't we little one?

The creature makes a tiny BLIP.

                      PENNY

          That's what we'll call you. Blip.

Blip reaches out, touches a green ribbon around Penny's wrist.

                      PENNY

          You like that?

Penny takes the ribbon off, ties it around Blip's wrist. Blip looks
up, eyes glowing. Penny caresses the tiny creature's cheek.

                      PENNY

          Nice girl. Pretty girl. Nice.

The creature reaches up, touches Penny's cheek. Her tiny tongue trying
to imitate Penny's words of comfort.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

Judy stands, just out of sight, watching her sister, smiling.

CHAPTER 16: Alien World
-----------------------


INT.-JUPITER TWO-MED LAB

Don shoves an indignant Smith into the room, adjusts a newly installed
security panel in the wall.

                      SMITH

          Remove that lock this instant. I
          shall not be caged like some animal

                      WEST

          (lethal)

          I gave my word I'd let you live. I
          never said for how long.

                      SMITH

          These quarters will be fine.

Smith stares at him a beat.

                      SMITH

          Tell me, Major West. Are you really
          confident in Robinson's ability to
          guide us? If I were set free, I would
          support your right to command. With
          minimal force, we could take this
          ship and assure this mission
          continues under your leadership.

                      WEST

          ...My God Smith, you're right. How
          could I have been so blind? I'll just
          run and get you a gun so we can
          hijack the ship. Okay?

                      SMITH

          Sarcasm is the recourse of a weak
          mind.

                      WEST

          I'm hiding the pain. Really.

And with that West leaves.

Smith tries the door. Locked. Then, from one cuff of his field suit,
be removes the control belt he stole from the probe ship.

                      SMITH

          I assure you, Major West. Your pain
          has just begun.

Smith moves about the room, lifting small bits of metal, creating an
impromptu set of tools with which to alter the control bolt.

PAN DOWN. HOLD on SMITH'S BACK. Beneath the rend in his suit, the tiny
tear in his flesh is now covered with tiny, alien scales.

INT. -BRIDGE-NIGHT

Judy sits in one of the command chairs over a the remains of a meal,
sipping water, staring out into the alien night.

                      WEST (OVER)

          Star light, star bright...

                      JUDY

          A million strange stars and only one
          wish. I wish we were home.

Don comes and sits in the co-pilot's chair beside her.

                      JUDY

          I never thought a sky could look so
          alien. ...We really are lost.

                      WEST

          When the first sailors circled the
          globe and saw a brand new sky, they
          thought they had sailed off the edge
          of the earth. But they were really
          just around the corner.

                      JUDY

          (smiles)

          We just billow our sails and let the
          wind blow us home, Is that it Major?

                      WEST

          So those sailors found familiar
          shapes in the stars to make the skies
          more friendly, to help them find
          their way.

Don turns on a monitor below the viewscreen. MONITOR-CLOSE. It shows
the star-field above. He lifts a light-tipped stylus.

                      WEST

          That's how constellations were born.

Don begins to draw on the screen, connecting the stars like dots in a
children's book. Slowly, a familiar porcine face takes form.

                      WEST

          Porky the wise and mighty Pig.

Judy LAUGHS. She takes the stylus. Begins to draw.

                      JUDY

          The great bucktoothed Bunny... Bugs.

Don smiles. Judy can't help but smile back. Their faces are close.

                      WEST

          So, my quarters or yours?

                      JUDY

          Excuse me?

                      WEST

          We are the only single man and woman
          of consenting age in the galaxy. How
          much more of a set up do you need?

                      JUDY

          So you figure just dispense with the
          pleasantries, get down to business?

                      WEST

          You have a way with words, Doctor.

                      JUDY

          (provocative)

          Right here? On this console?

Don moves his face to hers, only a breath apart.

                      WEST

          Here would be fine.

Judy smiles sweetly.

DON-CLOSE. Lips parting. Suddenly water begins to pour down over his
head. His eyes open wide. Judy holds her empty glass in hand.

                      JUDY

          Next time, fly slower.

She rises, walks off, leaving Don mopping his brow.

INT.-JOHN & MAUREEN'S QUARTERS

Maureen sits on the edge of her bed brushing her hair as John
activates the automated security systems.

                      JOHN

          What was I thinking, bringing us all
          out here into space?

                      MAUREEN

          The world needed saving. You were the
          right man for the job.

                      JOHN

          But solving the world's problems
          doesn't leave much time for the
          people you love, does it?

                      MAUREEN

          Did you get any time with Will?

                      JOHN

          Now he's decided he can rebuild the
          robot. Wants to show me his designs.
          I've got too much to do-

                      MAUREEN

          Funny creatures, men. You try so hard
          not to be your fathers, end up making
          the same mistakes. Will adores you.
          He needs your attention.

                      JOHN

          We can't get off this planet much
          less back on course. I don't have
          time to...

                      MAUREEN

          John, just listen to him. it doesn't
          matter what he's saying. Just listen.
          Sometimes, at least in the eyes of
          their fathers, little boys have to
          come first.

                      JOHN

          As soon as we get back into space,
          we're going to spend some real time
          together. I promise.

Maureen looks out the window. A long beat. Then she smiles.

                      JOHN

          What?

                      MAUREEN

          It's nice to have our family under
          one roof. Even if we had to go half
          way across the galaxy to manage it.

John presses a button, the blast shield opening to reveal the stacked
orbs of three glowing moons. Maureen smiles.

                      JOHN

          How would you feel about a little
          late night tutorial, Professor?

John moves to her, begins pulling her down, out of FRAME.

                      MAUREEN

          Mm. That's new. What are you doing?

                      JOHN

          Going for extra credit.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO-NIGHT

The ship sits on the alien landscape.

                      MAUREEN (OVER)

          Good night John.

                      JOHN (OVER)

          Good night Maureen.

                      WILL (OVER)

          Good night Judy.

                      PENNY (OVER)

          Good night Will.

                      JUDY (OVER)

          Good night Penny.

                      WEST (OVER)

          You guys have got to be kidding.

CHAPTER 17: The Core
--------------------


INT.-JUPITER TWO-BRIDGE-MORNING

Will comes up on the elevator, rubbing his eyes, first awake in the
morning. He stumbles to the viewscreen.

WILL-CLOSE. His eyes widen with shock.

                      WILL

          Oh man.

REVERSE ANGLE

A giant portal shimmers at snow's edge about 100 yards from the ship.
Beyond it, a sun-stained field of towering plants and trees.

INT.-BRIEFING ROOM

The crew gathers at the table. (OVER) a RUMBLING. The ship shakes.

                      PENNY

          What are those rumblings? They've
          been happening all morning.

                      JUDY

          How can half the landscape have grown
          up overnight?

                      JOHN

          Okay, let's get settled. Maureen?

MAUREEN'S MONITOR-CLOSE. A geothermal analysis shows the giant plates
that make up this world appear mismatched.

                      MAUREEN

          It's impossible. But this planet's
          geothermic plates don't match up.

                      JOHN

          I was afraid of this.

Al1 eyes turn to John.

                      JOHN

          I think these tremors are the result
          of opening and closing doorways.

                      PENNY

          Doorways to where?

                      JOHN

          The future.

                      SMITH

          Perhaps the Professor was hit on the
          head when we landed.

                      JOHN

          Remember the portal that lead us to
          the probe ship? What if we crossed a
          into a time years after Earth sent a
          rescue mission.

                      WEST

          You're not serious? Time travel is
          impossible.

                      WILL

          No it's not. It's just improbable.
          Like hyperdrive was a hundred years
          ago. Nothing's really impossible.

                      JOHN

          This world could be riddled with
          doorways to the future.

                      WILL

          So if we walk into that forest
          outside, we're really just walking
          into this crater years from now.

                      MAUREEN

          Geological plates from different
          times wouldn't fit together. That
          would explain the tectonic mismatch.
          But doorways in time, John?

                      JOHN

          If these portals are opening and
          closing, part of some cascading,
          natural phenomenon, they could be
          tearing this planet apart

                      WILL

          These portals are exactly what I
          predicted my time machine would do.
          What if the doorways aren't natural?
          A machine that bends space, like our
          hyperdrive, could be modified to bend
          time as well. What if someone on this
          world has built a device?

                      JOHN

          Son, I appreciate your input but now
          isn't the time for flights of fancy.

                      WILL

          You never listen to me. Not ever.

And with that Will storms out. John stares after him a beat, sorely
wanting to follow. (OVER) another RUMBLE.

                      JOHN

          There's no telling how long before
          this planet breaks up entirely.

          (rising).

          Don and I are going to locate the
          radioactive material for the core.
          Get the ship ready to go. We may have
          very little time.

INT. -BRIDGE

John, suited up, heads for the open front hatch when he spots Will
sitting alone in the Com chair, tinkering with his deck.

                      JOHN

          Aren't you coming out to say goodbye?

Will just shakes his head.

                      WILL

          You're always leaving. What if...

Will looks away, finally giving voice to his worst fear.

                      WILL

          What if one time you don't come
          home...

John stares at his son, unsure what to say, the boy's anguish so deep
and apparent. He reaches into his shirt, takes off his dog tags.

                      JOHN

          Whenever your grandfather went away
          on a mission, held leave these with
          me. For safe keeping. And when he got
          home I d always be waiting to give
          them back.

He lifts the chain and places it around the boy's neck.

                      JOHN

          I'm coming back Will. I promise.

Will is silent. John touches the boy's hair, then walks out. A beat.
Will looks up after his father, fingering the dog tags.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

The Robinsons, all except Will, stand-gathered around the front of the
ship. Don has a small tracking device in his hand.

                      WEST

          I've got a fix on the radioactive
          material. It's through the portal.

                      JOHN

          We'll just have to hope the doorways
          remain stable.

                      JUDY

          These crater walls are disabling the
          com-links. You won't be able to
          communicate with the ship.

(OVER) the ground shakes again.

                      Maureen

          Come home to me, Professor.

                      JOHN

          I love you, wife.

John kisses her. Don looks at Judy.

                      JUDY

          I'm going to regret saying this, But
          try to get back in one piece.

                      WEST

          This is kind of a kiss for luck
          occasion, wouldn't you agree, Doc?

                      JUDY

          See. I'm regretting it already.

          (coy)

          Kisses have to be earned. Say
          goodbye, Blip.

Blip reaches up and touches John's face. Then her CHIRPS form a rough
approximation of the words Penny taught her.

                      BLIP

          Nice girl. Pretty girl. Nice.

                      JOHN

          You take care of her, Penny.

          (kisses her head)

          Take care of you too, baby.

Then the two men bead off, towards the portal and forest beyond.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

Smith stares out the cabin window. PUSH IN as

INT.-SMITH'S CELL

                      SMITH

          Yes, enjoy your moments of trite
          familial bonding.

He turns, heads back to his table, transformed now, into a makeshift
lab, the stolen control bolt in mid-modification.

                      SMITH

          Because they will be your last.

INT.-WILL'S CABIN

The beginnings of Will's home-made robot sits on the table. WILL is in
the f.g. riffling his PERSONAL CARGO container.

Penny ENTERS, an assortment of small electronic devices, hairclips,
and other metal and electronic objects. Dumps them on the table.

                      PENNY

          That's everything even close to
          nonessential. Even my bellybutton
          ring.

                      WILL

          Thanks, Pen.

                      PENNY

          You want to come on a land survey?

But Will just shakes his head, sulky.

                      PENNY

          Look, what does dad know? Maybe
          someone did build a time machine.

She ruffles his hair. Disappears. Will activates a CPU speaker.

                      ROBOT

          Robot is on line.

(OVER) a KNOCKING has begun. WILL looks up, puzzled.

                      WILL

          It sounds like old morse code.


Chapter 18: Danger Will!
------------------------


INT.-CORRIDOR

Will walks down the corridor. (OVER) The KNOCKING continues. Will
follows the SOUND until he comes to the door of Smith's prison.

Smith is visible through the door window, sitting at a table,
hammering out the code with his boot. He beckons Will inside.

Will shakes his head. Smith begins TAPPING again.

                      WILL

          (sounding out the code)

          Danger.

INT.-SMITH'S CELL

The door slides open and Will ENTERS, a laser pistol in hand.

                      WILL

          You said someone is in danger.

                      SMITH

          We all are. You are wise to arm
          yourself.

Smith eyes the weapon, moving towards the boy.

                      WILL

          This gun is set to fire for me only
          so don't try anything funny.

Smith barely misses a beat as he adjusts, passing the child, going
instead to the window and opening the blast shield.

                      SMITH

          William, you misjudge me. I only want
          to help you.

                      WILL

          Help us? You tried to kill us all.

                      SMITH

          But now our fates are intertwined. if
          your father and that idiot West fail,
          I will have no chance of getting
          home. It is in my best interests they
          succeed. And I always follow my best
          interests.

Smith gazes out at the exotic terrain. (OVER) an inhuman WAIL.

                      SMITH

          What monsters roam these alien wilds?
          Fools. To set off blindly across this
          savage land. Much as I hate to admit
          it, it will be harder to manage
          without them.

                      WILL

          What are you talking about? They'll
          be back. They'll be okay.

Smith is silent. A long, lethal beat.

                      WILL

          Someone should go after them.

                      SMITH

          Will, I forbid it. You're a boy. A
          clever one, certainly, but a child
          nonetheless. This planet is likely
          full of predators. Even if you found
          them, what if they're hurt, ravaged,
          dying, what good could you do?

                      WILL

          But you're a doctor.

Smith turns away, hiding his smile.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO-DAY

Judy and Maureen are hanging on repelling lines before the crater
wall, shipping away ore that glitters like diamonds.

                      JUDY

          It's impossible.

                      MAUREEN

          Not really. Geologists have
          speculated that Dimondium might be
          naturally occurring in many older
          worlds. Part of a biosphere's way of
          rejuvenating itself.

                      JUDY

          This one is ten times more powerful
          then that on Alpha Prime. There's
          enough here to save Earth.

Penny stands in the f.g. with Blip on her arm, taking plant samples,
talking into her video recorder.

                      PENNY

          After much deliberation, the Space
          Captive has decided to accept her new
          role as member of the crew. The
          Robinsons, after all, can  obviously
          use her help...

Blip jumps up on Penny's arm, knocking her recorder to the ground.

                      PENNY

          (flaring)

          Now look what you've done. Stop
          hanging all over me.

Blip stares at her, frightened by her tone, begins backing away to the
edge of the forest. She looks at Penny, then disappears into the thick
brush..

                      PENNY

          Blip. Wait. I'm sorry. Damn.

Penny heads after the creature. HOLD on her recorder. Forgotten.


CHAPTER 19: A Different Future
------------------------------


EXT.-PLANET'S SURFACE-DAY

Will and Smith are walking down a forest path. The boy has a radiation
tracker in his hand.

                      WILL

          I've got a fix on Dad's suit beacon.

Dead ahead is a field of beautiful, alien flowers, their purple leaves
moving in the wind like an azure sea.

                      WILL

          Wow, that's Mom's favorite color.

                      SMITH

          How droll.

(OVER) a tremendous RUMBLING. The WIND ROARS. Suddenly, the air in the
distance begins to twist, a rushing distortion sweeping towards them,
flowers growing, landscape aging rapidly within.

                      SMITH

          Run, child, run.

Smith turns, begins to flee, pulling Will with him, away from the
rushing warp. Smith trips, falls, closes his eyes, waiting for the
distortion to overtake him. A beat. He opens his eyes.

SMITH-POV. A glowing, stationary portal shimmers behind him, revealing
beyond a forest ever older, darker, more overgrown.

                      SMITH

          Will? Will?

No sign of the boy. Then, from behind a tree, Will appears.

                      WILL

          Wow!

The field across the portal has is now a mass of giant plants, the
flowers a deep red. Will rushes across the rip in space.

                      SMITH

          William, wait!

                      WILL

          See, over here I'm in the future.

(steps back towards Smith)

          Here I'm in the past. Don't worry.
          If my theories are correct, these
          doorways should remain stable, for
          a while anyway.

                      SMITH

          I can barely contain my glee. Why
          aren't you aging like the plants?

                      WILL

          That's just an effect of the portals
          forming. Once they stabilize you can
          cross from one time to another
          just like stepping between two
          rooms.

          (off his tracker)

          Dad's signal is this way. Come on,
          Doctor Smith.

Will takes Smith's hand, pulls him across the threshold.

SMITH-POV. Where he stands is now lush, the sky overhead a glowing
crimson. Yet behind him, the path in as it originally appeared.
Younger. The sky, bright. Will has run deeper into the brush.

Smith notices something by his feet. He clears away the brush,
revealing shapes beneath the foliage. His expression darkens.

                      WILL (OVER)

          What did you find?

Will has returned.

                      SMITH

          Come, come, son, no time for
          distractions. Let's move on.

Smith shoves Will on, the boy unable to see what Smith saw.

PAN DOWN. Headstones. Each bears a marking, the names still legible.
Maureen, Penny and Judy Robinson.

EXT.-PLANET'S SURFACE-DAY-PRES

John and Don emerge from the brush. They have come to one of the
crater walls. John looks from the rock face to his tracker.

                      JOHN

          Damn.

                      WEST

          Damn? Damn is not good.

                      JOHN

          The radiation signature we've been
          tracking. it's a  ghost. A
          reflection from the Jupiter Two
          bouncing off the ore in these walls.
          There's no core material here.

(OVER) a sudden RUMBLING. The ground shakes. The ROAR of WIND. A time
portal rushes towards them like a glittering maw, the side of the
crater aging and crumbling in it's wake.

John and Don race away from the distortion, ducking falling trees,
roll clear as the portal stabilizes, now a fixed doorway to a darker,
more deserted future.

                      JOHN

          The ship's back that way. we have to
          go through.

EXT.-BRUSH-DAY-PRESENT

Penny is pushing through the forest.

                      PENNY

          Blip? I'm sorry. Blip?

She spots the tiny creature ahead in the distance. Blip SNIFFS the
ground, runs a few steps. SNIFFS again. Looks up. There, before Blip
is another glittering hole in time. The forest beyond is far thicker,
the sky red. Blip steps through the portal.

                      PENNY

          Blip, wait.

Penny goes to the edge of the portal, stares at the monstrously tall
trees beyond. A beat. Then she steps through, following.

EXT.-CRATER CAVES-FUTURE

Penny pushes through dwindling brush to a series of rocky overhangs
and caverns cut into the crater wall.

BLIP is standing over a large circular stone, hopping up and down,
CHIRPING and BLIPPING madly.

                      PENNY

          Blip, you can't run off like that.

(closing on the stone)

          What the-?

THE STONE-CLOSE. A series of hieroglyphs are painted on the giant
rock, their images the same style as those on the probe ship.

HIEROGLYPH ONE-CLOSE. A mighty battle in space is depicted.

                      PENNY (OVER)

          Some kind of fight, in space. It
          almost looks like the probe ship
          Major West blew up.

HIEROGLYPH TWO-CLOSE. A fiery star falls to the planet's surface.

                      PENNY

          That could be the Jupiter Two crash
          landing.

HIEROGLYPH THREE-CLOSE. Here a dark haired beauty holds a single
lizard monkey aloft, her face remarkably like Penny's.

Suddenly BLIP begins to SHRIEK. (OVER) RUSTLING leaves.

SHAPES are moving in the trees, the vague outline of camouflaged forms
dropping to the ground. Five figures suddenly de-camouflage. Lizard
monkeys, two large, two smaller.

Directly in front of Penny, the largest monkey de-camouflages. Fully
grown, the beast is nearly twice Penny's height. Around the creature's
wrist is something odd. An old, tattered green ribbon.

BLIP begins to SCREAM and SHRIEK.

                      PENNY

          Blip, no!

Too late. Blip leaps on the giant creature, grabs the ribbon. The
beast could slap Blip away like a fly. But the creature doesn't
resist, just stares down at Blip with something akin to tenderness.

Blip looks at the ribbon in his hand. Then at the one around her
wrist. Save for their age difference., the ribbons are identical.

The giant monkey moves forward, closing on a petrified Penny, paw
reaching out, touching her face. The beast begins stroking Penny's
cheek in a familiar gesture of comfort.

                      GIANT BLIP

          Nice girl. Pretty girl. Nice.

Penny stares up in stunned wonder.

EXT.-PLANET'S SURFACE-EVENING-FUTURE

Don and John are crossing the brush. The terrain in growing ever more
desolate, desert like. The double suns hang on the horizon.


                      JOHN

          We should be able to see the ship.

Something catches the light on the ground beside them. Don reaches
down and lifts a small metal fragment in his hand.

METAL-CLOSE. On it is the familiar logo of the United Space Agency.

                      WEST

          Could these be from the probe?

                      JOHN

          Corroded. This metal is decades old.

Don finds another piece of wreckage, turns it over in his hand.

                      WEST

          It's not possible.

WRECKAGE-CLOSE. The fragment bears a simple legend: Jupiter Two.

                      WEST

          What kind of nightmare is this?
          Where the hell are we?

                      JOHN

          No, Major, when the hell are we?

Suddenly Don is hit in the chest with a plasma charge, goes flying.
John ducks and rolls, FIRING his laser from behind the cover of a
rocky mound. John goes up to take another SHOT, is bit with a powerful
electrical blast, falling hard. Still.

REVERSE ANGLE

Rolling out from behind him, claws extended in attack Position and
apparently many years old, is a rebuilt Robot.

EXT.-PLANET'S SURFACE-EVENING-FUTURE

Will and Smith are crossing the alien terrain. The plants have given
way to desert. The suns hang low in the crimson sky.

                      WILL

          I feel like we got turned around.

                      SMITH

          Just follow your father's signal,
          young William.

                      WILL

          Oh shit.

                      SMITH

          A boy of your intelligence shouldn't
          swear.

                      WILL

          (pointing)

          Look.

                      SMITH

          Oh. Shit, indeed.

REVERSE ANGLE. At the edge of the crater wall sits the wrecked hull of
the Jupiter Two. The lower sections are gone, the hull scarred, open
to the sun.


                                                               CUT TO:

JOHN-CLOSE. Stirring to consciousness.

WIDER

INT.-JUPITER TWO BRIDGE-FUTURE

Or what is left of it. Dark. The occasional COMPUTER panel flickers
Shattered monitors. An awful history-told in torn metal. John is
slumped in a corner, Don still on the floor beside him.

                      VOICE (OVER)

          Well, well. All things really do
          come to he who waits.

A FIGURE sits in the command chair, visage obscured by shadow.

                      JOHN

          What is this place?

                      FIGURE

          Why Professor, the shock must have
          scrambled your brain. Look around
          you. Don't you recognize the spot?
          You've come home.

                      JOHN

          This can't be...

But even as the words cross his lips, he knows it is.

                      JOHN

          What have you done to the ship.
          ...Where's my family?

                      FIGURE

          Your family is dead. Dead and in the
          ground.

                      JOHN

          No!

                      FIGURE

          What fickle consort in memory. Time
          dims certain images while others
          shine clear and bright as yesterday.

The figure stands, light hitting his face. Late thirties. Long blond
hair, a shaggy beard and moustache. Eerily familiar.

                      FIGURE

          I'll never forget that morning.
          Twenty years ago. What was it you
          said? I'll be back. I promise. But I
          knew better. You never came home.

The figure walks to one of the burned out panels.

                      FIGURE

          Without you, your family never had a
          chance. A few spidersv survived the
          destruction of the probe ship. They
          reached the planet and attacked. I
          can still hear the women scream.

                      JOHN

          Who are you?

The figure walks forward, into the light. Stands there a moment. Then
he lifts something hanging around his neck. Tarnished metal, old but
familiar. John's father's dog tags.

                      FIGURE

          Don't you recognize me, Dad? It's
          me. I'm your son. Will.

EXT.-CRATER CAVES-DAY

Maureen and Judy, lasers drawn, are pushing through the brush.

                      JUDY

          Penny? Penny?

The four lizard monkeys are kneeling in a circle around Penny.

                      MAUREEN

          Penny? Baby, are you alright?

Penny rises, steps forward, carrying Blip. The other beasts hang back,
their faces genuflecting, almost reverential.

                      PENNY

          It's okay, Mom. They're not going to
          hurt us. it's like  they think I'm
          their princess or something.


                                                               CUT TO:

EXT.-CRATER CAVES -EVENING-FLITURE

Judy is examining the palm of the largest beast as Maureen scrutinizes
the images graven into the giant stone.

                      JUDY

          Best as I can tell this whole clan
          was spawned by this single creature.

          (to the beast)

          We've been a busy girl haven't we?
          But...

                      MAUREEN

          Speak, doctor.

                      JUDY

          Each creature seems to have unique
          corpuscular patterns on their palms.
          As individual an fingerprints, no
          two alike. Except...

                      MAUREEN

          Except the prints on this giant
          creature and our little Blip
          match exactly. Don't they?

                      JUDY

          How did you know?

                      MAUREEN

          Because, I think Blip and our friend
          here are actually one and the same.

Penny and Judy stare at her in wonder.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-ENGINE ROOM-FUTURE

The Robot, shoving John with one claw, carrying Don in the other,
follows Older Will into the giant room.

                      OLDER WILL

          Father, I give you ... eternity.

                      WIDER

War torn and pirated. A pit of molten lava bursts through the floor
above which floats a giant ball of silvery liquid held suspended by
the pulsing field of the hyper-drive. Tendrils of fire strain towards
the bubble. As they EXPLODE into the silver liquid, images form within
the sphere, nearly coherent, then gone.

A tracked gantry stretches from the floor, leading out over the
bubble. At the end of the track a crow's-nest of COMPUTERS SHOOTS a
single laser down into the center of the bubble.

                      WEST

          (coming to)

          . . .ouch. Who ordered me that last
          drink? What the hell is going on?

                      JOHN

          I think we crossed into our own
          future. We've come back to the
          Jupiter Two decades after we left.

                      OLDER WILL

          Look father, what my flights of
          fancy have wrought. I used your
          hypergate to build my time machine.

Will moves to a control console at the base of the giant gantry.

                      OLDER WILL

          Over the years I have struggled in
          vain to harness the awesome power of
          time. All my experiments at creating
          a stable doorway have been futile.
          Until now. Today you will witness my
          ultimate triumph.

Will hits a button. A generator opens, revealing a glowing cylinder of
core material incrementally descending into the console.

                      WEST

          The core material. if we could get
          that back to our Jupiter Two...

                      JOHN

          The doorways in time that led us
          here must be a side effect of his
          machine coming on line. Like streams
          running into the ocean....

                      OLDER WILL

          Once this core material in fully
          introduced into the control console,
          I will open a doorway stable enough
          for one person to take one trip
          through time and space as well.
          Today, I will change history.

Will turns a switch on the control console. (OVER) More TREMORS. The
laser beam's intensity grown, and in the corridor cut by the beam into
the bubble images begins to stabilize. Images of Earth.

                      OLDER WILL

          I will return home, to the very day
          you took us on this cursed mission.
          I'll stop us from taking off. I'll
          do what you never could. I'll save
          the family. I'll save us all.

                      JOHN

          Look around. Your machine is ripping           this planet
apart. What if the force
          wave you ride home has the same
          effect on Earth? What if, in getting
          home, you destroy Earth in the
          process?

A beat. Then Will turns away, goes back to work.

                      OLDER WILL

          I'm going home. I'm going to save
          the family.

                      JOHN

          Will, I'm your father. You've got to
          listen to me-.

                      OLDER WILL

          Let me tell you about my father. My
          father was a walking ghost. Never
          there when I needed him. He dragged
          his family into deep dark space and
          lost them there. My father is not
          coming to the rescue.

CHAPTER 20: Spiders Sting
-------------------------


EXT.-ALIEN PLAnet-EVENING-FUTURE

Will and Smith are closing on the battered ship. Smith puts his hand
on the boy's arm, holding him back.

                      WILL

          We've got to go inside.

                      SMITH

          Slow down, now. We can't know what
          waits inside that ravaged craft. But
          we can be confidant it is nothing
          good. And I for one am frightened.

                      WILL

          But Dad's in there.

                      SMITH

          Will, listen to me. I have crossed
          this world with you, found your
          father as promised. But I can't let
          you go in there unarmed.

                      WILL

          But I've got a gun.

                      SMITH

          If we go forward, the barer of that
          weapon must be ready to kill. Murder
          is a skill, one which I have
          developed and, luckily dear boy, you
          have not. Look inside your heart,
          Will. Are you truly capable of
          taking a life? If not, then I ask
          you now, put your faith in me. Give
          me your trust. Give me that gun.

Will stares him. Pulls free the pistol. Thumbs the lock pad.

                      WILL

          Enable gun for all users.


                      GUN

          Voiceprint confirmed.

Will hands Smith the gun.

                      SMITH

          Finally.

Smith grabs Will by the neck, pressing the barrel to his temple.

                      SMITH

          A brief lesson in survival on this
          world or any other. Never trust
          anyone. Remember it into your old
          age, should you have one.

          (shoving him forward)

          Now move!

INT.-JUPITER TWO-ENGINE ROOM-FUTURE

John stands facing older Will. Don is in the b.g., edging towards the
control panel and the descending core material.

                      JOHN

          We can go back across the portals to
          the past, to the functioning Jupiter
          Two, where your mother and sisters
          are still alive. We can use this
          core material to escape together.

                      OLDER WILL

          And then what? All of us lost in
          space. Don't you see? I can do what
          you never could. I can save us all.

Don has edged his way to the descending core material.

                      SMITH (OVER)

          I'm afraid not.

          Through the doorway comes young
          Will, Smith walking behind him, hand
          on his shoulder, gun to his head.

                      SMITH

          Never fear. Smith is here.

                      JOHN

          Will, I. . .

                      SMITH

          Don't move, Professor Robinson or
          this rather peculiar family reunion
          will be tragically brief.

          (off Don)

          I'll ask you to step away from that
          console, Major.

Don stares at him a beat. Then obliges, walking over to join John.
Smith approaches the Robot.

                      SMITH

          Well, well, some of us just don't
          know when to stay dead.

Smith goes into his tunic and removes his modified control bolt.

                      SMITH

          I borrowed this from the probe ship
          in hopes of taking over the helm
          once we were in flight. But I seem
          to have found a better use instead.

Smith slaps the bolt on the Robot's CPU. The automaton's arms go up,
then fall limp. Docile.

                      SMITH

          Let's try this dance again. You are
          the puppet. I am the puppeteer. Do
          get it right this time.

Smith activates the bolt. The Robot powers up once again.

                      SMITH

          Robot, enable electric disrupters.

The Robot's claws begin to glow with electricity. Smith smiles.

                      SMITH

          Now that's a good gargantuan.

Smith walks to Older Will, puts the gun to his head.

                      SMITH

          Say goodbye to your past. You're
          future lies with me. I'm going home
          in your place.

Smith starts to pull Older Will away when Will comes forward, staring
at the time machine, eyes wide with awe.

                      WILL

          You did it. Just like I imagined.
          Re-routed the hypercore. But the
          natural power source, the delivery
          system. I never thought of those.

Older Will's smile is bittersweet as he places his hand on his younger
self. Touches his hair.

                      OLDER WILL

          You will. The future is never what
          it looks like when you're ten.

                      SMITH

          Heartwarming. Nauseatingly
          sentimental but heartwarming.

Smith shoves the boy back to his father, turns to Older Will.

                      SMITH

          We certainly could have aged better,
          I must say Now, show me how your
          little time machine works.

But Will just smiles.

                      SMITH

          An odd moment for mirth, don't you
          think? What are you grinning at?

                      OLDER WILL

          Look around you, Doctor. At this
          hostile world. Do you really think a
          boy could have survived all alone?

SMITH-CLOSE. Puzzled. Unseen, the boulder behind him seems to be
moving, shifting. A VOICE comes, alien, yet terrifyingly familiar.

                      VOICE (OVER)

          Never fear, Smith is here.

The shape behind him unfolds, coming up now, long spindled arms and
legs, ten feet tall, a hybrid monster, half spider, half Smith.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          Hello, Doctor, how nice to see me
          again after all these years.

Smith stands petrified as the creature approaches him on spindled
legs, goes down on its second knee joints, coming eye to eye.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          The spider's sting had some
          unexpected side effects.

Spider Smith flexes his three jointed arm.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          But my unique gifts gave me an
          advantage in this quarrelsome world.

Spider Smith reaches out and caresses Will's cheek. Turns  to John.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          After the women were savaged, I
          became the father Will never had.

He grabs Smith's arms and begins to move him about like a marionette,
engaging in a bizarre dance with himself.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          (bending him)

          But you, Doctor. Your crude ambition
          fills me with self-loathing.

          (twisting him)

          You see I have looked within me and
          what I see is you.

With that Spider Smith lifts Smith over his head and hurls him like
torpedo through a torn hole in the hull, towards the rocks beyond.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          I never liked me, anyway.

Spider Smith turns to face the Robot.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          Kill them all.

                      OLDER WILL

          No.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          But my dear boy, once the doorway in
          time stabilizes, this planet is
          going to come apart at the seams.

Smith throws the back of one hand over his forehead in a parody of a
twenties starlet.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          I am willing to perish here on this
          world for the sake of your most
          noble mission. But your selfish
          father will only try to stop you.

His head comes forward, neck elongating so he faces WILL.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          Once your mission is complete, none
          of this will have happened anyway.
          So why not just dispose of them?

But Will's gaze is impassive. Spider Smith actually SIGHS.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          Very well. Robot, take them inside
          the ship and keep them there. If
          they move, then kill them.

ECT.-CRATER CAVES-FUTURE

Maureen and Judy are examining the heiroglyph stone. The ground
shakes. Birds SCREAM. (OVER) RUMBLING.

                      MAUREEN

          We've got to get to the ship. Penny?

She turns. The clearing is empty. No Blips. No Penny. Blip runs cut
before them, grabs Maureen's hand, trying to pull her forward.

                      MAUREEN

          Where is she, girl?

In Blip's hand, a mass of colored ribbons from Penny's wrists. Blip
waves them in the air, then races off. A beat. The women follow.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-ENGINE ROOM-FUTURE

The pulse laser is increasing its intensity, the corridor of images in
the bubble stabilizing. The TREMORS are increasing in frequency.

PAN DOWN

Spider Smith stands with Will, watching as the Robot shepherds the
crew towards the body of the ship.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          Well, it would seem the time is upon
          us. Off we go, William.

Spider Smith starts climbing the gantry, truly like a spider, up
towards the bridge and crows nest hanging over the bubble.

Will walks to the control console platform, the platform now beginning
to rise on the gantry, towards the bridge above.

JOHN-POV. Something hangs from below the climbing Spider Smith's back.
It's an egg pouch of the kind they saw on the probe ship log.

                      JOHN

          (shouting)

          Will, it's a trick. Smith's carrying
          an egg sack. If he's willing to stay
          on this world and die, why is he
          about to spawn? He's going through
          the portal himself.

The Robot FIRES a charge between its claws.

                      ROBOT

          Proceed to the ship or be destroyed.

ON THE RISING CONTROL PLATFORM.

OLDER WILL-CLOSE. Frowns.

Suddenly, Smith's head drops INTO FRAME. The creature is hanging
upside-down. He smiles.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          Hurry, boy. Time waits for no man.

EXT.-GANTRY SYSTEM-WIDE SHOT

The platform bearing Will reaches the top of the gantry and begins
moving out across the bridge towards the crows-nest.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-ENGINE ROOM CONTROL PLATFORM-FUTURE

Spider Smith drops into place beside Older Will as the control
platform comes to a stop on the crow's-nest.

The core cylinder continues sinking into the console. Smith looks out
over the platform. Beneath them, imagine of infinity flicker.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          It's almost time. I really am a
          word-smith.

                      OLDER WILL

          Once the core cylinder is fully
          injected, the planet will begin to
          come apart and the time doorway will
          stabilize. Then I jump in.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          A leap of faith. How fitting.

TIME BUBBLE-CLOSE. In the circle made by the laser, the images are not
yet stable, but discernable. Earth the day before the launch.

                      OLDER WILL

          Tell me again, old monster, how did
          the girls die?

                      SPIDER SMITH

          We've been over this before, son.
          The spiders attacked the ship

                      OLDER WILL

          In all the years since, the spiders
          have never re-surfaced. Why?

Smith stares at him. Then he smiles. A horrible sight.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          Let's forget the past.

Will turns a switch. The laser generated aperture narrows.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          What are you doing?

                      OLDER WILL

          Focusing the aperture. Remember, the
          energy around the portal will rip a
          man to pieces.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          Isn't the doorway too small?

                      OLDER WILL

          Not for me.

          (a beat)

          But then I'm not going, am I? The
          spiders didn't kill the girls. It
          was you. I just never let myself see
          it. You kept me alive because you
          needed me. Because I could build
          this for you. You killed my family.
          Destroyed this world. And I helped.
          You became mad as the spiders.
          ...And I became you.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          Poor, poor boy. Did you really think
          I would let you go home? Let all
          that I have become vanish? Look at
          me. I am no mere man. I am a God.

Spider Smith opens his pouch, revealing a thousand tiny spiders.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          Your father was right. Within me
          roil the growing needs of a master
          race. We WILL descend upon helpless
          Earth. An entire planet to rule.

His arm whips out, grabbing Will, bringing him close, opens his mouth,
bearing venomous fangs.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          An entire planet on which to feed.

INT.-MODIFIED JUPITER TWO-FUTURE

John and Don talk in the holding area. The Robot stands guard. (OVER)
the TREMORS are increasing in frequency.

                      WEST

          I'll run, draw his fire. You may
          have time to get away with Will.

                      ROBOT (OVER)

          Halt or Robot will destroy.

The men look up. In the b.g., Will has approached the Robot.

                      WILL

          Do you remember what I taught you. A
          long time ago. About friendship?

                      ROBOT

          Friendship means acting with your
          heart not your head.

                      WILL

          That's why I rebuilt you. Because I
          wanted us to be friends.

                      ROBOT

          Logic error. Friendship does not
          compute.

                      WILL

          Forget logic. Act with your heart.

                      ROBOT

          Robot has no heart. Robot is powered
          by a fusion pulse generator

                      WILL

          Every living thing has a heart.

The Robot stares at him a beat.

                      ROBOT

          Any attempts to override command
          protocols may result in fused
          processors in my neural net.

The floor trembles again. The planet is coming apart at the seams.

                      WILL

          Please, Robot, if you don't let us
          go, we're all going to die. I'm
          asking you now, will you help us?
          Will you be my friend?

The Robot stands still a beat. Then he reaches towards Smith's control
bolt attached firmly on his CPU.

                      ROBOT

          Robot attempting to deactivate
          control bolt-commands
          overriddenattempting to
          reroute-dangercircuitry
          overloadattempting to escape-kill
          them, kill them...

The Robot's claws lift into attack position, an electrical charge
building with dangerous intensity. He is about to fire.

At the last minute, the Robot jerks his hand upward, BLOWING away a
piece of the ceiling. He rips off the control bolt.

                      WILL

          You did it.

                      ROBOT

          Robot will save ... I will save Will
          Robinson. I will save my friend.


CHAPTER 21: Time to Die!
------------------------


EXT.-FOREST-DAY-PRESENT

Penny and Maureen chase a frantic Blip through the portal back into
the daylight of the present. Here, too, the world RUMBLES.

                      MAUREEN

          (shouting )

          Penny? Penny?

Penny stands in front of the Jupiter Two, beckoning them urgently.

                      MAUREEN

          Where did you go?

                      PENNY

          I came through the forest. I had a
          promise I had to keep.

Before Maureen can respond the ground RUMBLES, begins crumbling.

                      JUDY

          Inside. Fast.

INT.-JUPITER TWO BRIDGE-FUTURE

Don, John, Will and the Robot stand at the open hatch. Outside, the
ground RUMBLES.

                      JOHN

          You've got find your way back to the
          ship. The portals may still be
          stable. I'll try to meet you there.

                      WEST

          What do you mean?

                      JOHN

          I'm going to get that core material.
          It's our only chance to escape.

                      WEST

          I'll stay. The family needs their
          father

                      JOHN

          The crew needs their pilot. No
          matter what happens, when the planet
          starts to break up you take off.

                      WEST

          Without the core we'll never have
          enough power to make orbit.

                      JOHN

          You've got to try. Promise me, Don.

A beat. Then Don extends his hand.

                      WEST

          Good luck. Commander.

Just then Will and the Robot arrive.

                      JOHN

          Will. Son. I want you to know-

                      WILL

          (fighting tears)

          You'll tell me when you get back to
          the ship. Now there just isn't time.

John bites back a bittersweet smile. (OVER) another RUMBLING.

                      JOHN

          I could use a weapon.

The Robot extends his claw. A panel opens on his arm and he tears out
a hand-made component. A conduit made from Will's golden first prize
medals, joined together to make a jagged star.

                      ROBOT

          Professor, I have a plan.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-ENGINE ROOM CONTROL PLATFORM-FuTURE

Spider Smith has Will against the rail.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          Time to die, son.

                      OLDER WILL

          I'm not your son.

And with that Will SMASHES Spider Smith in the face with two closed
lists. Smith recoils, lifts the boy aver his head.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          Goodbye.

Smith hurls Will over the rail towards the time pool below.

The creature walks to the end of the arm, stares at the forming
aperture into the past below him.

PORTAL-CLOSE. Images of the day before the mission launch swirl in the
laser-generated opening, growing ever more stable.

WIDER

Will is hanging over the time bubble, unconscious and unseen, dangling
from the gantry by a flashing chain around his neck.


CHAPTER 22: Time Travel
-----------------------


EXT:-PLANET'S SURFACE-EVENING-FUTURE

Don and the Robot, Will riding his back, navigate the terrain
alongside the ravaged hull of the Jupiter Two.

                      WILL

          Look.

On the ground, crumpled in a heap, is Smith. Don checks his pulse.

                      WEST

          (disappointed)

          Damn. He's still breathing.

(OVER) the rushing WIND. RUMBLING. A portal opens before them to a far
younger world. Then another portal, to a world far older. A third
portal RIPS across the sky overhead.

                      WILL

          The time machine must be near full
          power. The portals are collapsing.

                      WEST

          Which one leads us home?

More portals are opening around them, others winking shut.

                      WILL

          There.

Through a new rip in time, the intact Jupiter Two can be seen in
relief of the battered future craft. The ground beneath their feet is
beginning to give way.

                      WILL

          We can't just leave him here.

                      WEST

          Sure we can.

          (off WILL's stare)

          Damn it.

          (slapping the Doctor)

          Smith. Wake up. Smith.

                      SMITH

          (coming to)

          Oh, the pain, the pain.

                      ROBOT

          Danger. Will Robinson. Danger.

The PORTAL is beginning to shimmer. The ground starts to fall away.

                      WEST

          Jump!

Don hurls Smith through, Will, the Robot and West darting across the
threshold just as the portal winks closed.

EXT. -FOREST- PRESENT

The trees are bursting into flames an Will, Don, the Robot and Smith
emerge from the woods. Race forwards towards...

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

INT.-JUPITER TWO-BRIDGE-PRESENT

The women are powering up the ship. The men are visible through the
windscreen. Outside, the ground in beginning to crumble.

                      PENNY

          Mom, the forest.

Penny opens the air lock. Maureen holds close her son. Steps back.

                      MAUREEN

          Where's John?

                      WEST

          The portal closed behind us. It was
          his only way back.

MEE GROUND-CLOSE. A geyser of fire BLOWS into the air.

                      WEST

          We've got to try and lift off.

                      MAUREEN

          We've already begun the pre-flight
          countdown. You have the Com.

          (off Don's expression)

          I'm going to save as many lives as I
          can, Major. Now strap in.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-ENGINE ROOM CONTROL PLATFoRm-FUTURE

(OVER) TREMORS. More lava is rushing up towards the mercury, the walls
themselves beginning to crack.

SMITH opens a gate at the end of the crow's-nest and a gang plank
unfolds above the doorway in time.

                      JOHN (OVER)

          Not so fast.

WIDER

John stands on the platform behind Smith, fighting star in hand,
slashes for his face. Smith moves fast, knocking the star to the
gantry bridge with his arm. John leaps on Smith, using his fists.

                      JOHN

          You sabotaged our mission.

          (hook)

          You killed my family

          (jab)

          You stole my son. It's payback time.

Smith's head moves from each impact, but the punches have no effect.
It smiles. Grabs John and hurls him across the platform.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          Spare me the fury of the righteous.

The monster leans down over John. Opens its jaw.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          I think there's time for a snack
          before my trip.

John's hand is reaching towards the fallen fighting star. At the last
moment John grabs the metal weapon from the catwalk, slashes Smith
across the face, silver-red blood pouring down his cheek.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          (sarcastic)

          Oh, the pain. The pain.

                      JOHN

          You ain't seen nothing yet.

John feints towards Smith's head and then slashes low, cutting the
viscous membrane of the monster's egg pouch.

SPIDER SMITH-CLOSE. Surprised.

                      JOHN

          Remember the probe ship? These
          monsters eat their wounded.


SMITH'S EGG SACK-CLOSE. Scores of the tiny spiders are pouring out of
the sack, rushing up towards Smith's face, tiny jaws chomping.

                      SPIDER SMITH

          No. Stop. No!

Spider Smith tumbles backwards, falling against the rail on the side
of the platform. John rises and rushes him, SHOULDER-SLAMMING him,
sending Smith hurling over towards the bubble below.

Spider Smith hits the bubble, missing the doorway formed by the red
laser and is swept up by the tides of time.

                      JOHN

          Take all the time you want to die.


Spider Smith SCREAMS as he disappears and reappears in the various
half-formed images within the bubble before vanishing altogether.

John turns. The core cylinder has descended almost entirely into the
main console. only seconds before it's too late to retrieve it.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO-DAY-PRESENT

The landscape is a sudden inferno.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-PRESENT

Don is at the Com. Maureen strapped into the co-pilot's chair.

                      MAUREEN

          I kept hoping somehow he'd appear.

Maureen stares a beat out the window.

                      MAUREEN

          Let's go, Major.

Don hits the engine switch. The.mighty generators WHINE into life.

                      MAUREEN

          (quiet)

          Goodbye, my love.

CHAPTER 23: Escape Velocity
---------------------------


The ship rocks as land masses on all sides begin to give way.

                      WEST

          Engaging primary thrusters. Now!

EXT. -JUPITER TWO-DAY-PRESENT

The power drive begins to glow, diodes spinning. The landing struts
retract. The Jupiter Two begins to rise.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-ENGINE ROOM-INSERTION ARM-FUTURE

CONTROL CONSOLE-CLOSE. The core material in sinking fast. John moves
towards it when something on the gantry catches his eye.

GANTRY-CLOSE. Wedged into the grill work is a shiny scrap of metal
reflecting the setting sunlight. John's father's dog tags.

John rushes to the rail. There, still unconscious and hanging by the
dog-tag chain is Older Will.

CHAIN-CLOSE. The metal links are pulling apart. Will is seconds away
from falling into the pool.

JOHN-POV. The cylinder has completely sunken into the machine. It's
Will or the core material. No time for both.

John stands a beat, immobile. Then he drops to his knees, reaching
down as the chain breaks, grabbing Will's wrist at the last second.

The dog tags tumble into the pool below as John hoists Older Will up
onto the safety of the gangplank.

                      JOHN

          Come on, son. Wake up.

Will is still. Then, finally, his eyes open.

                      OLDER WILL

          Dad?

                      JOHN

          I thought I lost you.

                      OLDER WILL

          The core.

Will turns in time to see the core cylinder sink into the control
panel, the laser exploding in intensity below them as it drains the
cylinder's radioactive power. The world begins to EXPLODE.

                      OLDER WILL

          You could have taken the core and
          left before it was too late. You
          saved me instead.

John stares at him.

                      JOHN

          There wasn't any choice. I couldn't
          let you fall.You're my boy.


THE LASER-CLOSE. Reaches full power. The image in the time pool
stabilizes, becoming clear.

TIME POOL-CLOSE. Mission Control the day before the launch.

Father and Son stare into the past, eyes filled with wonder.

                      OLDER WILL

          Look. They made it.

PAN UP. Through a torn hole in the hull and a glowing rip in space,
the Jupiter Two is rising into the flame ravaged sky.

INT.JUPITER TWO-PRESENT

The ship is shaking madly.

                      WEST

          We're not getting any altitude.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO-DAY-PRESENT

The fire GEYSERS are legion, giant chunks of the planet's surface now
falling away beneath them. A huge spew of flame rages from the
fire-pocked surface, hitting the bull of the tiny craft.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-PRESENT

Judy is at navigation, frantically enhance the stabilizers.

                      JUDY

          I'm reading a power build up.
          Markers in the red-

Suddenly the panel EXPLODES, sending Judy flying across the bridge.
Penny races to her sister. Kneels. Judy's eyes are wide, still.

                      PENNY

          She's dead.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-PRESENT

The ground is breaking, falling into an endless fiery abyss below.

                      WEST

          Not enough power to make orbit.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO-DAY-PRES ENT

Another firestorm. A flame geyser hits the ship. Then another.

INT.-JUPITER TWO-PRESENT

Control panels all around the ship begin to SLOW. The main screen is
hit by a flying chunk of rock. The giant glass begins to crack.

                      WEST

          (to Maureen)

          I'm sorry.

The windshield EXPLODES, sucking them both out into space.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO-DAY-PRESENT

The ship is hit by another fire geyser. The Jupiter Two EXPLODES.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

INT.-JUPITER TWO-ENGINE ROOM-FUTURE

John and Will kneel on the crow's nest as the Jupiter Two dodges the
fire geysers in the sky through the torn hull. The ship is struck
once, again, finally EXPLODING in a ROARING ball of fire.

JOHN-CLOSE. A man who has lost everything he ever loved.

                      JOHN

          I couldn't save them.

Will stares at his father and beyond him. There, in the time doorway,
a young Will walks towards the entrance to Mission Control in the
morning sun, innocent with no knowledge of the future.

                      OLDER WILL (OVER)

          So many years ago and I can still
          feel it. Our sun. Our Earth. It's
          all I've thought about. Going home.

Will reaches forward and touches the control console. The images in
the laser generated doorway begin to change.

                      OLDER WILL

          A long time ago, you told a small
          boy that one day he'd understand how
          precious he was, how much his father
          loved him. Today is that day.

TIME BUBBLE-CLOSE. Instead of Earth we now see this planet's surface,
the Jupiter Two rising as it did just moments ago.

                      OLDER WILL

          All I could see was your need to go
          forward at any cost. What you never
          showed me was your love. I lost
          that. Robbed by time. I could never
          see how much you cared. Until now.

TIME BUBBLE-CLOSE. The Jupiter Two tries in vain to dodge the fire
geysers, then EXPLODING all over again. Will enters some commands.

TIME BUBBLE-CLOSE. The image in the portal begins to run backwards,
the Jupiter Two reconstituting from a ball of flame, receding past
diminishing flame geysers, beginning to land again.

                      OLDER WILL

          Father, take my hand.

INT.-CUPITER TWO

We are back in the ship just before take off. DON mans the Cam.
Maureen straps herself into the co-pilot's chair.

                      MAUREEN

          I kept hoping somehow he'd appear.

Maureen stares a beat out the window.

                      MAUREEN

          Let's go, Major.

Don hits the engine switch. The mighty generators WHINE into life.

                      MAUREEN

          (quiet)

          Goodbye my love.

                      PENNY

          Look.

The roof of the hull is beginning to swirl, becoming translucent, like
water. There, standing above them, John and Older WILL.

2NT.-JUPITER TWO-ENGINE ROOM-CROW'S NEST-FUTURE

The bridge of the Jupiter Two is visible in the laser generated
doorway. Older WILL looks to his father.

                      OLDER WILL

          DON'T make me wait another lifetime
          to know how you feel.

And with that he pushes John over the edge, the Professor falling down
through space and into the bubble and the doorway below.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

The ceiling becomes water an John drops into the ship. Maureen cradles
her husband. Then she looks up. Will is still visible through the
watery hull.

                      JOHN

          Come with us.

But the passage through time and space is already breaking up as the
world of the engine room EXPLODES in the b.g.

                      OLDER WILL

          I can't. There was only enough power
          for one person, one trip, remember?

                      MAUREEN

          Will?

                      OLDER WILL

          It's good to see you again, Mom.
          It's good to see you alive.

          (fading)

          Sorry about all the monkey business.

Maureen reaches up towards her son, reaching down, the two hands
almost touching before Will is gone, the portal closed forever.

                      JOHN

          He sacrificed everything for his
          family.

                      MAUREEN

          (fighting tears)

          He had a good example.

Maureen holds him close. A small figure walks up beside them. Will.

                      WILL

          Dad?

A beat, then Will reaches up, hands him his dog tags.

                      WILL

          I'm glad you came back.

                      JOHN

          I just want you to know I love you
          son. I love you very much.

John takes the boy in his arms, father and son finally holding close.
(OVER) more RUMBLING as the ground continues to give way.

                      WEST (OVER)

          The planet is breaking up around us.

John moves fast to the Com.

                      WEST

          Nice of you to drop in.

John smiles a beat, then he's all business.

                      JOHN

          Status?

(OVER) A tremendous CRASH.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

The land masses are falling away beneath them, plummeting into

giant caverns of fire.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

                      SMITH

          We're doomed. We're doomed.

West turns, hauls off and PUNCHES Smith, knocking him out cold.

                      WEST

          Boy, that felt good.

                      JOHN

          Get us airborne.

Don throws the power switches to full.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

The landing struts retract. The power drive begins to spin. The
Jupiter Two rises above the ground just as the firmament collapses
upon itself. Fire geysers ERUPT. History in about to repeat itself.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

                      WEST

          I'm going to try to reach escape
          velocity. Maybe we can break the
          gravitational pull.

                      JOHN

          No. We don't have the core material.
          The gravity wells will drag us down.

                      WEST

          We might-

                      JOHN

          We won't make it. Trust me. I know.
          We've got to go down.

                      WEST

          What?

                      JOHN

          Through the planet as she breaks up.

                      WEST

          That's insane.

                      JOHN

          I don't have time to argue. I'm
          giving you a direct order, Major.

Don and John stare at each other a beat. Then Don smiles.

                      WEST

          Yes Sir.

VIEWSCREEN- CLOSE. The world is breaking up beneath them, revealing a
fiery maw. DON GUNS the engines, heading straight for the chasm.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

The tiny ship flies into the giant expanding crevice.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

DON is flying into the shattering center of the planet. Masses of
continents, some bearing forests, others oceans, all soar past.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

The tiny ship flies deeper toward the molten center of the planet.

INT.-JUPITER TWO

                      JOHN

          There.

A window out the windscreen a portion of the planet has torn away
revealing the black of space and the starfield beyond.

                      WEST

          I see it.

Don banks the ship toward the opening, flying past exploding fragments
of this shattering world.

EXT.-JUPITER TWO

The ship clears the planet as the world EXPLODES in the b.g.

CHAPTER 24: Alpha Prime
-----------------------


INT.-JUPITER TWO

DON guides the ship out into space. Judy comes up behind him.

                      JUDY

          Nice work, flyboy.

                      WEST

          So, I earn that kiss yet?

                      JUDY

          (a peck on the cheek)

          You earned that.

DON shrugs, begins to turn away. Judy grabs him.

                      JUDY

          This one is on credit.

She gives him a long, passionate kiss. She lets him go, stunned.

                      JUDY

          Cold fish, huh?

Penny holds Blip in her arms, who has begun to BLIP madly.

                      MAUREEN

          Poor thing. She's lost her whole
          family.

          (off Penny)

          Penny, why are you looking at me
          like that. Penny?

Penny presses a button. Blast doors open on a storage hold.

                      PENNY

          I promised Judy I'd take care of
          her. I couldn't leave her all alone.

(all stare at her)

          Well I am their princess, after all.

          (turning)

          You can come out mow.

Forms in the cargo hold de-camouflage. The other lizard monkeys,
standing amidst glittering canisters of Dimondium.

                      JOHN

          Dimondium. Now if we could only find
          our way back to Earth.

                      ROBOT

          If I may, Professor.

The Robot projects a holographic schematic of the galaxy. The Jupiter
Two is highlighted. Earth blinks at the other and.

                      ROBOT

          Your son's star charts.

                      WILL

          It's a map home.

(OVER) ALARMS. The shattered planet's core is turning bright red, a
sudden ROARING blast wave heading towards the ship.

                      WEST

          The planet's gravity field in
          collapsing.

                      MAUREEN

          We'll be sucked in.

                      JOHN

          There's no way to get clear in time.

                      JUDY

          The hyperdrive.

                      MAUREEN

          Everybody hang on.

                      PENNY

          Here we go again.

                      WILL

          Cool.

Don throws the switch.

EXT. -JUPITER TWO

The planet's core EXPLODES as the Jupiter Two vanishes into
hyperspace, a sudden star and then gone.


FINAL FADE TO BLACK

