


<b><!--
</b>if (window!= top)
top.location.href=location.href
<b>// -->
</b>
One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest 



EXT. WORK FARM - NIGHTFALL

All we SEE is an ELEVATED SHOT of the distant mountains,
rolling landscape and McMURPHY -- one cheek laid-open and
crusted over with dried blood, his face and prison work
clothes caked with dried sweat and dust -- as he sits on the
very top of a water tower watching the last rays of sunlight.

A long moment passes before McMurphy's attention is drawn
elsewhere and he looks down.

REVERSE SHOT - McMURPHY'S POV

Far below, in the prison yard a MAN is SEEN hurrying acrcss
the yard where he joins a group of men composed of armed
prison guards, officials, and medics -- a stretcher, an
ambulance, a fire truck and safety nets spread out at the
base of the water tower. The man is seen talking to the
officials, then a bullhorn is handed to him and they all look
up at McMurphy.

McMURPHY

As he looks down at them, a searchlight is turned on him.

			MAN (V.O.)
		(through bullhorn)
	McMurphy! This is Doctor Shankle,
	from the infirmary. Can you hear
	me?

McMurphy doesn't respond.

			SHANKLE (V.O.)
		(through bullhorn)
	Can you hear me, McMurphy?

McMurphy doesn't respond. Another searchlight goes on as a
SECOND VOICE is PICKED UP on the BULLHORN.

			SECOND VOICE
		(through bullhorn)
	Why don't we blast 'im, for Christ
	sake, he ain't gonna come down...
	you...

The BULLHORN is TURNED OFF. A long moment passes as McMurphy
continues to squat on the tower and wait. He shivers against
the coming night when...

			SHANKLE (V.O.)
		(through bullhorn)
	McMurphy!
	I have the warden's promise. If you
	come down, nobody will hurt you!
	You'll be in my custody! I promise!

An imperceptible smile appears on McMurphy's face.

INT. MEN'S DORM - OREGON STATE HOSPITAL - DAWN

Strange HUMMING SOUNDS, CLANKING PIPES and HISSING RADIATORS
as we see beds, with patients lying asleep, line two walls.
The third wall is a heavy gauge steel grill, with a door that
opens on to the day room. The door is open. On the far side
of the day room, a long hallway with other doors opening into
rooms: the latrine, washroom, tub room, mess hall, seclusion
room, psychiatrist's office, visitors' room, etc.

Across the day room, a glass enclosed nurses' station where
TURKLE, a Negro night attendant, is seen preparing to go off
duty.

The CAMERA PANS the beds in the men's dorm. One man turns,
another twists, a third lies as if dead.

CAMERA PAN ENDS on BROMDEN, who lies still, eyes wide open,
very alert. He reaches down, plucks a stale piece of gum from
under the bed frame, puts it in his mouth and starts chewing.

A beat, then Bromden carefully undoes the leather strap which
binds him to the bed. He slips out of bed and quietly makes
his way down the aisle, paying no attention to the other
patients, some of who are beginning to stir awake.

Ahead, at the end of the hallway, the door opens and three
Negro day attendants, WASHINGTON, WARREN and MILLER, dressed
in white uniforms, enter and move down the hallway and
disappear into a side room.

Bromden continues his silent journey towards the day room as
Turkle emerges from the side door to the nurses' lounge, goes
up the hallway as MISS PILBOW, the day nurse, comes in,
passing Turkle on the way out. She crosses to the nurses'
station and enters as Bromden reaches the day room.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

as Bromden makes his way across the day room, past the
nurses' station, unnoticed by Miss Pilbow who is busy
preparing the day's medication.

Bromden is sliding along the hallway wall, when he is
suddenly cut off by a mop which THUDS against one side of his
neck. A second mop yokes him on the other side. Bromden
freezes. Terrified.

			MILLER
	Where you goin', Chief?

			WARREN
	You goin' t'see the Big White
	Fathuh?

			WASHINGTON
	He goin' t'see the Big White
	Muthuh...

They cackle, legs jiving, as the ammonia stings Bromden's
eyes and burns his nose. He tries to twist his head, but
Washington jams the mop harder. Bromden freezes, panic
spreading across his face.

			WASHINGTON (CONT'D)
	Haw, look at 'im, big 'nough to eat
	apples off my head an' he mine me
	like a baby...

A KEY is HEARD hitting the lock in the main door. Washington
very adroitly releases Bromden, hands him the mop, and turns,
along with Warren and Miller, to their duties, as BIG NURSE
enters the ward.

			THREE ATTENDANTS
		(simultaneously, as Big
		Nurse passes)
	Mornin', Miss Ratched...

			BIG NURSE
	Good morning, boys.

She sweeps by and disappears into the nurses' station. The
three attendants put their mops and rags aside and start
towards the men's dorm, leaving Bromden pressed against the
wall, mop in hand.

INT. NURSES' STATION

as Big Nurse enters to be greeted by Miss Pilbow, who wears
an enormous cross between her breasts.

			MISS PILBOW
	Good morning, Miss Ratched. It's a
	beautiful day, isn't it?

			BIG NURSE
	Mean old Monday, Miss Pilbow, mean
	old Monday...
		(she flips on the
		intercom)
	Good morning, boys. Rise and shine.
	Rise and shine.

INT. MEN'S DORM - DAY

as Washington, Warren and Miller roust the patients out of
bed.

			BIG NURSE (V.O.)
		(through loudspeaker)
	Time to get up! Come on now, it's a
	beautiful day! Let's not straggle!
	Everybody up, up, up!

The Chronics are physically helped out of bed as the Acutes,
who can handle themselves, cross out into the Day Room,
rubbing the sleep out of their eyes. Big Nurse steps out of
the Nurses' Station. Washington and Warren are hustling the
patients toward the washroom.

Miller stays behind, stripping Blastic's bed and rolling up
his mattress.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

as the Acutes straggle past Big Nurse.

			BIG NURSE
	Good morning, Mister Sefelt... Good
	morning, Mister Fredrickson. Good
	morning, Billy, I spoke to your
	mother last night and she sends her
	love... Good morning, Mister
	Harding... Good morning, Mister
	Cheswick. Mister Scanlon...

Bromden comes drifting by, going in the opposite direction.
Big Nurse takes his hand and reaches up and pats his face.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Oh, Mister Bromden...
		(calling out)
	Mister Washington!

Washington comes running.

			WASHINGTON
	Yes, Miss Ratched?

			BIG NURSE
	Mister Washington, why don't we get
	a good head start on the day by
	shaving Mister Bromden and see if
	we can't avoid a disturbance.

			WASHINGTON
		(taking Bromden by the
		hand)
	Yes, Miss Ratched...

INT. WASHROOM - DAY

The patients are busy washing and shaving.

Warren is assisting a vegetable wash himself as Washington
guides Bromden through a cage-like partition... where an
antique barber chair stands.

			WASHINGTON
		(calling as he goes)
	Warren!

He sits Bromden down and straps his bands and legs in, then
plugs the electric shaver in and turns it on and brings the
BUZZING instrument towards Bromden's face. Bromden turns
away.

			WASHINGTON (CONT'D)
		(shouting out)
	Get your black ass in here!

Warren props the vegetable up against the sink.

			WARREN
	Tha's it... be right back!

Warren leaves; the old man starts sliding.

					QUICK CUT TO:

BROMDEN

as Warren enters and takes a firm grip on Bromden's head and
Washington goes to work on Bromden's face. CAMERA PUSHES INTO
EXTREME CLOSEUP of Bromden's fearfully distorted face as the
BUZZING SOUND of the electric razor INTENSIFIES until it is
INSUPPORTABLE.

					QUICK CUT TO:

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

No sound as we SEE Big Nurse watch the last few patients file
past the side door to the Nurses' Station where Miss Pilbow
hands out little cups with pills. Washington stands by,
checking to see each man takes his pills before filling their
cups with orange juice.
The last patient takes his pills and returns to his place in
the Day Room. Miss Pilbow closes the window.

Satisfied that all is well, Big Nurse turns on an old 45
record player with a stack of records, then she settles down
to her work as a SOFT, NOSTALGIC NUMBER from the '40's is
HEARD OVER LOUDSPEAKER. CAMERA BEGINS SLOW PAN of the Day
Room.

The patients, under the influence of drugs, have settled down
for the day. HARDING is playing cards with MARTINI, CHESWICK
and BILLY. SEFELT and FREDRICKSON are putting a jigsaw puzzle
together in brotherly love. SORENSEN is off by himself,
rubbing his hands clean. TABER, pencil in hand, sits
pondering over a blank piece of paper. SCANLON paces back and
forth. On the Chronics' side of the room, RUCKLY is turning a
grimy photograph over in his hands. BANCINI sits wagging his
head, mumbling over and over, "Tired, awful tired..." ELLIS
stands against the wall, arms outstretched, hands nailed to
the wall by imaginary nails.

Bromden is pushing a mop around. 

Washington, Warren and Miller are in the men's dorm making up
the Chronics' beds when O.S. the TELEPHONE RINGS.

					CUT TO:

INT. NURSES' STATION - DAY

as Miss Pilbow picks up the phone.

			MISS PILBOW
	Eighty-two, Miss Pilbow speaking...
	Yes...
		(she makes a note and
		hangs it)
	... New admission, Miss Ratched...

Miss Pilbow goes to the mirror, quickly preens herself, then
turns and flips the intercom on.

			MISS PILBOW (CONT'D)
		(over loudspeaker)
	Mister Washington! Mister Warren!

She exits.

					CUT TO:

INT. DAY ROOM

as Miss Pilbow exits nurses' station and heads down the
hallway, Washington and Warren on her heels. Miller looking
wistfully after them.

					CUT TO:

INT. MAIN ENTRANCE - STATE HOSPITAL - DAY

Staff personnel are SEEN moving in and out of the main
entrance where a state penitentiary car is parked. A DEPUTY
SHERIFF leans on the fender smoking a cigarette as SECOND
DEPUTY SHERIFF comes out of the building and motions down to
First Deputy, who crushes his cigarette out, then opens the
rear door to the car.

			DEPUTY SHERIFF
		(to an unseen occupant)
	Okay, let's go.

A long beat, then McMurphy slowly emerges from the car. He's
wearing handcuffs and dressed in faded jeans, flannel work
shirt, leather jacket, black motorcycle cap, and heavy black
boots. He's been scrubbed clean and has a Band-Aid on his
cheek. McMurphy does a couple of knee bends to get the kinks
out of his legs as Deputy reaches in the car and takes out a
small gym bag containing McMurphy's belongings.

			DEPUTY SHERIFF (CONT'D)
	Let's move it...

McMurphy goes up the stairs, followed by the Deputy, and
crosses into the building.

INT. MAIN BUILDING - DAY

as McMurphy enters the building followed by the Deputies,
where Nurse Pilbow, McMurphy's folder in hand, and Washington
and Warren stand waiting -- all in a pleasant, receptive
mood. First Deputy hands McMurphy's gym bag to Washington,
who hands it to Warren.

			SECOND DEPUTY
	Okay, this is it!

McMurphy turns and holds out his hands. As cuffs are removed,
McMurphy impulsively takes hold of the Deputy's head and
plants a kiss on his forehead.

			SECOND DEPUTY (CONT'D)
		(squirming out of
		McMurphy's grasp)
	Jesus, you're crazy, McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, ain't that the truth.

			DEPUTY SHERIFF
		(to Miss Pilbow)
	He's all yours, Miss.

			MISS PILBOW
	Thank you, Officer...

The two Deputies start down the stairs.

			MCMURPHY
	So long, fellas...

The two Deputies merely shrug their backs at McMurphy who
takes a deep breath of fresh air.

			MCMURPHY (CONT'D)
	Yes, sir, it's a mighty nice fall
	day...

			MISS PILBOW
	This way, Mister McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
	Yes, ma'am...

McMurphy follows Nurse Pilbow into the hallway as the door
closes behind them.

					CUT TO:

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Other STAFF MEMBERS are administrative personnel are SEEN as
McMurphy walks alongside Nurse Pilbow, who is noticeably
nervous by his close proximity. Washington and Warren
casually bringing up the rear.

			MCMURPHY
		(as he peels the Band-Aid
		off, revealing a scar)
	I tell ya, these goons showered me
	at the courthouse this morning,
	last night at the jail, and I swear
	they'd have swabbed my ears out on
	the way over if they could've found
	the facilities...

A young Japanese nurse, named ITSU, passes by.

			MCMURPHY (CONT'D)
		(to Nurse Itsu)
	Hey, how ya doin', cutie?

			NURSE ITSU
	Okay. How you doing?

			MCMURPHY
	Just great!
		(calling after her)
	See ya around!

Nurse Itsu laughs and disappears around the corner.

			MCMURPHY (CONT'D)
		(to Nurse Pilbow)
	Yes, sir, I sure am gonna enjoy my
	stay here.

			MISS PILBOW
	I'm sure you will.

			MCMURPHY
		(to Nurse Pilbow)
	Ya know, I ain't never been in an
	institution of psychology before.

			MISS PILBOW
	Oh...

They arrive at the ward door. Nurse Pilbow unlocks the door
and opens it as...

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, I'm here on a ninety-day
	observation period. Short-timer,
	like they say...

Soft nostalgic MUSIC is HEARD OVER.

			MISS PILBOW
	Of course.
		(indicating door)
	Mister McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
	After you, ma'am.

			MISS PILBOW
	Thank you.

Nurse Pilbow enters the ward and McMurphy watches her cross
the visitors' area to a heavy-gauge steel screen wall, with
security gate which she opens.

			MCMURPHY
		(to Washington and Warren
		as they step into ward)
	Man, there sure is an awful lot of
	poontang around here.

			SPIVEY
		(calling)
	Hold it!

McMurphy turns to see DOCTOR SPIVEY approaching.

			SPIVEY (CONT'D)
	Good morning, boys.

			WASHINGTON AND WARREN
		(simultaneously as Spivey
		passes into the ward)
	Mornin', Doctor Spivey.

			SPIVEY
	Great day for fishing.

			WASHINGTON AND WARREN
		(simultaneously)
	Yes, sir!

The door closes. CAMERA HOLDS on sign that READS: 

SMILE AT THE NEXT FACE YOU SEE. IT MAY SAVE HIS LIFE.

			MCMURPHY (O.S.)
	Yeah, I was just thinking the same
	thing, Doc...

					CUT TO:

INT. WARD - DAY

as McMurphy, Spivey, Washington and Warren cross the
visitors' area towards Nurse Pilbow, who stands holding the
security gate open. At the far end of the hallway, which
opens into the day room, patients can be seen.

			SPIVEY
		(to McMurphy)
	Oh, what's that?

			MCMURPHY
	Why, I'll betcha there must be a
	million albacore and tuna running
	of the coast right this minute.

			SPIVEY
	Oh, do you do much fishing?

As they pass through the security gate:

			MCMURPHY
	Fish! Hell, Doc, I'd like to have a
	nickel for every fish I landed
	between Point Conception and the
	Alaska coast...

Washington and Warren continue down the hallway, passing
SEFELT, who shyly approaches and waits at a respectful
distance.

			SPIVEY
		(to McMurphy)
	Is that so?

			MCMURPHY
	Yup! Worked right outta Depoe Bay
	for just about every season since I
	was able to haul my own weight.

			SPIVEY
	My, my... Ah, who are you?

			MCMURPHY
	McMurphy, Doc. R.P. McMurphy.

They shake hands.

			NURSE PILBOW
	Mister McMurphy is a new admission.

			SPIVEY
	Ah, yes. Well, we must talk soon,
	Mister McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
	You bet, Doc.

Spivey turns to Sefelt.

			SPIVEY
	Good morning, Jim. How are you
	feeling?

			SEFELT
		(approaching and pointing
		to his mouth)
	Doc, my gungs hurt me.

Spivey starts checking out Sefelt's mouth.

			NURSE PILBOW
	This way, Mister McMurphy.

As McMurphy follows Nurse Pilbow down the hall, Spivey's
voice trails after him.

			SPIVEY (O.S.)
	Have you been taking your Dilantin,
	Jim?

			SEFELT (O.S.)
	Uh-huh...

			SPIVEY (O.S.)
	Well, we'll send you over to the
	dentist and see what he can do.
	Okay?

			SEFELT (O.S.)
	Okay, Doc!

McMurphy and Nurse Pilbow reach the day room.

			MISS PILBOW
	Make yourself at home, Mister
	McMurphy...

			MCMURPHY
	Thank you, ma'am,

Nurse Pilbow enters the nurses' station, closing the door
behind her. Next to the door is a bulletin board which, among
other bits of information, READS: 

TODAY IS MONDAY SEPTEMBER 30, 1963. THE NEXT MEAL IS LUNCH.
THE NEXT HOLIDAY IS HALLOWEEN.

Another notice READS: 

SIGN UP NOW! BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT STAFF VS PATIENTS.
Washington, Warren, Miller

There are no other names listed. Sefelt passes by.

			MCMURPHY (CONT'D)
	Hi.

			SEFELT
	Hi.

Sefelt crosses into the day room where he joins Fredrickson,
who is putting a jigsaw puzzle together.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

as McMurphy drifts into the room and looks around. The room
is as it was. The MUSIC ENDS. There is a CLICK. McMurphy's
attention is drawn to the nurses' station.

McMURPHY'S POV OF NURSES' STATION

where Miss Pilbow is SEEN through a large plate glass window,
busy typing a nameplate for McMurphy.

Big Nurse, her back to McMurphy, is turning over a stack of
records. She presses the phonograph button. A record falls on
the turntable and MUSIC BEGINS as she turns and sees
McMurphy.

ANOTHER ANGLE

McMurphy smiles and tips his hat to Big Nurse. 

Big Nurse smiles back and takes her seat. 

McMurphy turns and drifts into the day room. 

Big Nurse looks up and studies him. 

McMurphy catches the eye of a PATIENT, sitting by himself.

			MCMURPHY
	How ya doin', buddy?

			PATIENT
	Poorly, thank you.

			MCMURPHY
	Oh, yeah? What's ailing ya?

			PATIENT
	I got the fever.

			MCMURPHY
	Well, that's too bad...

Taber, pencil and paper in hand, crosses to McMurphy and taps
him on the shoulder.

			MCMURPHY (CONT'D)
	Yeah, buddy?

			TABER
	Are you a doctor?

			MCMURPHY
	No, 'fraid not...

Taber walks away.

Martini tugs at McMurphy's sleeve.

			MCMURPHY (CONT'D)
	Yeah, buddy?

			MARTINI
	Can you borrow me a dime?

			MCMURPHY
	Sorry, buddy, I'm clean outta
	change...

Scanlon moves in.

			SCANLON
	Got a cigarette?

			MCMURPHY
	Sure...

			MARTINI
	Me too! Me too!

As McMurphy hands out his cigarettes Bromden drifts by, mop
in hand.

			MCMURPHY
	Hey, how's it look up there, big
	boy?

			SCANLON
	He can't hear you. He's just a deaf
	and dumb Indian!

			MCMURPHY
	That right?

			HARDING (O.S.)
	Martini, it's your turn!

Martini is staring off into space.

			HARDING (O.S.) (CONT'D)
	Martini!

			MCMURPHY
		(to Martini)
	Your buddy is callin' ya.

Martini crosses back to the card game as Taber returns.

			MCMURPHY
	What's troubling ya, buddy?

			TABER
	I want you to write me a letter to
	my brother for a hundred dollars to
	bury me.

			MCMURPHY
	You look pretty healthy to me.

			TABER (CONT'D)
	I'm the next one.

			MCMURPHY
	How do ya know that?

			TABER (CONT'D)
	Because I quit breathing.

			MCMURPHY
	You're breathin' right now.

Taber walks away.

McMurphy watches him go.

Nearby, an OLD VEGETABLE squeaks.

			MCMURPHY
		(crossing to him)
	What's that, Pop?

The old man squeaks again.

			MCMURPHY
		(leaning in close)
	Can't hear ya, old-timer.

			OLD VEGETABLE
	Ain't this a pisser?

			MCMURPHY
	Hell, compared to where I just come
	from, this is a country club.

McMurphy crosses to the card game and stands watching the
game.

			MCMURPHY
	Whatcha boys playin'?

			BILLY
	H-H-Hearts.

			MCMURPHY
	Shoot! No wonder you don't care
	nothin' 'bout showin' your hand.

Billy holds his hand close to his chest.

			MCMURPHY
	What's your name, buddy?

			BILLY
	B-B-Billy.

			MCMURPHY
	Well, put 'er there, Billy boy, my
	name's McMurphy.

They shake hands.

			MCMURPHY
	What I wanna know is who's the top
	loony around here?

			BILLY (CONT'D)
	Y-Y-You m-mean th-the pr-president
	of the P-P-Patients C-Council?

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, that'll do for openers!

			BILLY (CONT'D)
		(to Harding)
	H-H-Harding, the m-m-man w-wants to
	t-talk to you, y-you're the pr-pr
	pr...

			HARDING
	Does he have an appointment?

			CHESWICK
	Yeah, do you have an appointment?

			MCMURPHY
	What for?

			CHESWICK
		(to Harding)
	What for?

			HARDING
	I'm a busy man!

			CHESWICK
		(to McMurphy)
	He's a busy man!

A beat; then:

			MCMURPHY
	I can wait...

McMurphy picks up a chair and sits down right next to Harding
and looks at him. Another beat; then:

			HARDING
		(to McMurphy)
	What are you doing?

			MCMURPHY
	I'm seeing what a busy man does.

Harding, very nervous at McMurphy's proximity, turns back to
the game.

			HARDING
	Your turn, Martini!

Martini is lost in the clouds.

			HARDING (CONT'D)
	Martini, throw a card!

Martini throws a diamond.

			HARDING (CONT'D)
	No, throw a club!

			CHESWICK
	Yeah, throw a club!

Martini throws a spade.

			HARDING
	Don't you have any clubs?

			MARTINI
	No!

			HARDING
	Let me see your hand!

			MARTINI
	No!

			HARDING
		(slamming his cards)
	Well, if you gentlemen will excuse
	me, I have some pressing matters to
	attend to.

Harding gets up and crosses to the hallway, gathering his
pride as he goes.

McMurphy slides into Harding's seat and rakes all the cards
in.

			MCMURPHY
	Yessir, that's why I came to this
	establishment for, to bring you
	birds fun and entertainment 'round
	the gamin' table...

McMurphy fans the deck out and lays it on the table.
Everyone's eyes pop as he scoops the cards up in one movement
-- he's a card shark, a magician -- leaving the Acutes with
their mouths hanging open.

			MCMURPHY
	Easy now, don't smudge 'em, we got
	lots of games ahead of us...

			BIG NURSE (O.S.)
	Mister McMurphy!

McMurphy turns to see Big Nurse approaching, Washington
casually bringing up the rear.

			MCMURPHY
	Yes, ma'am...

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
		(handing him his bag)
	Will you come with me, please.

			MCMURPHY
		(rising)
	Hold the fort down, will ya,
	fellas!

			BILLY
	Sure, Mack!

McMurphy walks with her toward the men's dorm.

			BIG NURSE
	My name is Miss Ratched. I'm the
	head nurse here. You've already met
	Miss Pilbow and Aides Washington
	and Warren.

			MCMURPHY
	Yes, ma'am.

Big Nurse and McMurphy stop at the security gate to the men's
dorm where Miller opens the gate.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Mister Miller, this is Mister
	McMurphy, who'll be staying with
	us.

Greetings are exchanged as they pass through.

INT. MEN'S DORM - DAY

as Big Nurse and McMurphy cross down the aisle.

			BIG NURSE
	We do appreciate the way you have
	taken it upon yourself to meet the
	other patients.

			MCMURPHY
	Thank you, ma'am...

Big Nurse stops at an empty bed where Warren is turning the
mattress down.

			BIG NURSE
	This is your bed. You may leave
	your things in that cabinet.

			MCMURPHY
	Yes, ma'am...

			BIG NURSE
	Please use your time to familiarize
	yourself with your new home and if
	there is anything you need to know,
	don't hesitate to ask us.

			MCMURPHY
	Now that you mention it, I sure
	would like to call my aunt up in
	Portland and tell 'er where I am so
	she can come visit me.

			BIG NURSE 
	All in good time, Mister McMurphy.
	All in good time.

			MCMURPHY
	Yes, ma'am.

			BIG NURSE 
	Good. Now if you'll just go along
	with Mister Washington, he'll see
	that you're properly oriented.

McMurphy doesn't move.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Is there anything else?

			MCMURPHY
	Just that I'm glad to be here, Miss
	Ratched. I really am.

			BIG NURSE 
	Good. I'm sure we'll be friends.

They smile, sizing up each other.

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, you ain't half so bad looking
	for a head nurse.

			BIG NURSE
	Yes. Now go along, Mister McMurphy.
	Go along.

			MCMURPHY
	Yes, ma'am.
		(to Washington)
	Lead the way, Sam.

They cross out of the men's dorm.

Big Nurse watches them go.

			SPIVEY (V.O.)
	What other work have you done?

INT. DOCTOR SPIVEY'S OFFICE - DAY

Doctor Spivey is seated behind his desk, on which are several
glass-framed photos of Spivey's family, plus a nameplate:
JOHN M. SPIVEY, M.D., and McMurphy's papers.

McMurphy, freshly showered and wearing hospital-issue
clothes, sits facing him.

			MCMURPHY
	Hell, Doc, I've been everything
	from a hoopla man with a two-bit
	carny show to a top mechanic and
	bull goose catskinner for every
	gypo loggin' operation in the
	Northwest till the Army taught me
	what my natural bent was.

			SPIVEY
	Oh, what was that?

			MCMURPHY
	Poker!

			SPIVEY 
	I see.

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, but you know how society
	persecutes a dedicated man.

			SPIVEY (CONT'D)
	In what way?

			MCMURPHY
	They say I'm a habitual hassler.
	Like I fight some. Sheeut. They
	didn't mind so much when I was a
	dumb logger and got into a hassle.
	That's a hardworkin' feller blowing
	off steam, they say. But if you're
	a gambler, all you have to do is
	spit slantwise and you're a
	goddamned criminal.

			SPIVEY
	I see...

			MCMURPHY
	To tell the truth, ever since I
	found my natural callin' I done
	time in so many small-time jails I
	could write a brochure...

			SPIVEY 
	Yes... Ah, do you know why you're
	here?

			MCMURPHY
	Well, ya know, Doc...
		(indicating his papers)
	Doesn't it say so there?

			SPIVEY 
		(looking over papers)
	Well, according to the Warden at
	Pendleton, you were a disturbing
	influence on others. 'It appears
	that there is a potential in him
	for instigating a revolt among the
	other inmates.'
		(looking up at McMurphy)
	What do you think of that report?

			MCMURPHY
	I don't, Doc...

			SPIVEY 
		(goes back to papers)
	Arrested on an assault charge five
	times...

			MCMURPHY
	That's correct, Doc ...

			SPIVEY
		(reading from folder)
	The doctor at the prison states:
	'Don't overlook the possibility
	that this man may be faking
	psychosis to escape the drudgery of
	the work farm...' What do you say
	to that?

			MCMURPHY
	Doc, what can I tell ya?

			SPIVEY
	Ah, it seems you have no other
	psychiatric history, Mister Murphy?

			MCMURPHY
	No, this is my first trip, Doc.

			SPIVEY
		(closes folder and sits
		back)
	Well, you're here for a ninety-day
	observation period, Mister
	McMurphy. I'd like you to
	understand you are here on a court
	order and we are responsible to the
	state. So, I'd like your
	cooperation!

			MCMURPHY
	You bet, Doc!

			SPIVEY
	Good. Good.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

CAMERA is on Big Nurse as she stands, in front of a chair,
doing a deep breathing exercise.

The patients and staff, standing in front of chairs arranged
in a circle, follow suit as best they can. After a couple of
exercises Big Nurse sits. The others do the same except
Bancini, who remains standing, wagging his head back and
forth.

			BANCINI
	I'm tired. Whew. O Lord. Oh, I'm
	awful tired...

			BIG NURSE
		(busy with her papers)
	Somebody please see to Mister
	Bancini, so we can start the
	meeting.

Billy does... gently laying a hand on Bancini.

			BILLY
	T-t-t-take it e-e-easy, P-P-P
	Pete...

			BANCINI
	Awful tired...

Billy gently eases Bancini into his chair and sits beside
him, patting his skinny knee.

			BIG NURSE
	At the close of Friday's meeting,
	we were discussing Mister Harding's
	problem, concerning his wife...
		(reading from logbook)
	Mister Harding stated that his wife
	made him uneasy because she drew
	stares from men on the street. Is
	that correct, Mister Harding?

			HARDING
	Yes, that's perfectly correct.

			BIG NURSE
		(reading)
	He also thinks he may have given
	her reason to seek sexual attention
	elsewhere, but he didn't say how.
	He has been heard to say to his
	wife, 'I hate you, I don't ever
	want to see you again. You've
	betrayed me.'
		(she closes book)
	So. Does anyone care to touch upon
	this further?

Big Nurse waits. A long beat.

Harding sits, chewing his nails, tensely waiting, almost
wanting someone to begin.

The patients shift uncomfortably, looking in all directions.

McMurphy looks around to see what will follow, when he sees
Ellis, nailed to the wall; his pants leg darkens and a puddle
of piss forms at his feet. McMurphy looks to see if Big Nurse
or the Aides have noticed.

If they have, no one pays any attention.

McMurphy fidgets in his seat, then gets up, crosses to Ellis,
unhooks him from the wall, and moves him over a few feet.

The other patients are aghast at this move, look at each
other quizzically.

Big Nurse merely watches.

McMurphy crosses back to his chair and sits.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Mister McMurphy, this ward is a
	democratic community run by the
	patients and their votes, so you
	should feel at ease in your new
	surroundings to the extent you can
	freely discuss emotional problems
	in front of the patients and staff.
	However, the cardinal rule, and I
	must emphasize this: Everyone keeps
	their seat during the meeting!

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, well, it just pains me
	somethin' awful to see a full
	growed man sloshing around in his
	own water...

			BIG NURSE
	Yes... We were discussing Mister
	Harding's problem with his wife.
	Now, who will start?
		(no response)
	Billy.

			BILLY
	M-m-m-ma'am?

			BIG NURSE
	Would you like to start?

			BILLY
	N-n-n-n-n-no, ma'am.

			BIG NURSE
	Mister Sefelt?

Sefelt shrugs and sinks into his seat.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Mister Fredrickson?

Fredrickson passes.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Mister Taber?

Taber passes.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Mister Martini?

			MARTINI
	No!

			BIG NURSE
	Mister Scanlon?

Scanlon looks at the floor.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Mister Cheswick?

Cheswick wags his head 'no.'

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Am I to take it that there isn't a
	man among you who has an opinion
	concerning this matter?
		(no response; she focuses
		in on Harding)
	Mister Harding, you've stated on
	more than one occasion that you
	suspected your wife of seeing other
	men.

			HARDING
	Yes, Miss Ratched, this is correct.

			BIG NURSE
	But you have no proof.

			HARDING
	No, Miss Ratched...

			BIG NURSE
	And yet you suspect her.

			HARDING
	Yes, that is correct.

			BIG NURSE
	Why?

			HARDING
	I can only speculate as to the
	reasons why.

			BIG NURSE
	Have you ever speculated, Mister
	Harding, that you are impatient
	with your wife because she does not
	meet your mental requirements?

One of the Chronics laughs like a child.

			HARDING
	Miss Ratched. Given all the
	conditions of that sublime
	relationship, coupled with the
	subsequent annihilation of all that
	I held to be sacred, mentally,
	physically and emotionally, the
	only thing that I can speculate on,
	at this late date, is how I will
	justify the very existence of my
	life, with or without my dear wife.

			SEFELT
	What's he talkin' about?

			TABER
	Yeah, Harding, why don't you
	knockoff the bullshit and get to
	the point.

Several Acutes chime in, "Yeah, get to the point," AD LIB.

			HARDING
	The point is, I will carry on until
	I fully understand what the
	function of that relationship is
	regardless of form or content.

Several hands go up.

			BIG NURSE
	Yes, Billy?

			BILLY
	I-I-I-I-I d-d-don't s-s-see how
	anyone could lu-lu-lu-love a man
	who t-t-t-talks the way he does.

			TABER
	Yeah, Harding, you're so fuckin'
	dumb I can't believe it.

			HARDING
	That's a matter of opinion.

			SEFELT
	Yeah, Harding, where do you breathe
	anyway?

			FREDRICKSON
	Through the ass.

Sefelt and Fredrickson snicker into their hands. A few of the
others laugh.

			HARDING
		(smarting)
	Is that your sense of humor or are
	you trying to say something?

			FREDRICKSON
		(innocence itself)
	Now what would I be trying to say?

			HARDING
	I don't know. I don't know, but it
	makes me feel very peculiar when
	you throw in something like that.

			FREDRICKSON
	Peculiar?

			SEFELT
	Why?

			TABER
	Yeah, why?

			SCANLON
	Yeah, tell us why.

			HARDING
	I hesitate to go on.

			BIG NURSE
	No secrets, Mister Harding. Let's
	get it all out in the open...

			HARDING
	I mean, the other day you made an
	allusion to my wife and the
	possible sexual problems we might
	be having. I know that to be the
	case, but the way in which you
	broached it, if that's your idea of
	teaching me something...

			HARDING (CONT'D)
		(his voice rising as he
		goes on)
	... or making me aware of a
	condition in my life, then I say,
	categorically speaking, the hell
	with you, Taber!
	I don't have to justify the
	condition of my life to you or any
	of you. No matter what I will carry
	on until I fully understand what
	that function is regardless of the
	form or content. Regardless of the
	fact we must try to understand the
	function of our capacity to obtain,
	to personify the condition, the
	condition of our existence, our
	existence...

			TABER
	You know what, Harding? I think
	you're some kind of morbid asshole
	or something. You've been talking
	about your wife evere since I can
	remember. You know, she's on your
	mind and blah, blah, blah and on
	and on and when are you going to
	wise up and turn her loose!

			FREDRICKSON
	Yeah, wise up, Harding.

			SEFELT
	Yeah, turn her loose!

			ACUTES
		(start pouring it on)
	Yeah, who do you think you are
	anyway?... He thinks he's God
	Almighty... He's a snob... He's a
	schmuck... Dumbbell... Creep...
	Cretin... Idiot... Get rid of
	him... Ship him upstairs...

			RUCKLY
		(chiming in)
	Ffffffuck da wife...

			BANCINI
		(wagging his head)
	Tired... Awful tired...

			ACUTES
		(not letting up)
	Zap him... Give 'im lobotomy... Cut
	his nuts off... He doesn't have
	any... Fag... Pervert.

			BANCINI
		(in a strong angry voice)
	I'm tired!

Everyone hushes.

			BIG NURSE
	Somebody see to Mister Bancini.

Two or three Acutes get up and try to soothe Bancini, but he
isn't to be hushed.

			BANCINI
	Tired. Tired. Oh God, I'm tired...

Big Nurse nods to Washington, who goes to Pete, and gives his
arm a jerk toward the door. Bancini is unmovable.

Big Nurse signals Nurse Pilbow, who heads for the nurses'
station.

Washington senses danger, lets go of Pete's arm, backs away.

			WASHINGTON
	You a good boy, Mistah Bancini...

Nurse Pilbow returns, hypodermic needle in hand.

Pete turns to his fellow inmates.

			BANCINI
	You see... it's a lotta baloney...
	It's all a lotta baloney...

			NURSE PILBOW
	Yes, yes, Mister Bancini, now if
	you'll just be calm...

			BANCINI
	That's all it is, just a lotta
	baloney. Ya see, I can't help it,
	can't...

			NURSE PILBOW
		(working her way around
		Bancini)
	Yes, I know, I know...

She gets him in the ass, with the needle, and springs back.

			BANCINI
	... don't ya see. I was born dead.
	Not you. You wasn't born dead.
	Ahhh, it's been so hard...
		(starts going over,
		slowly; sighing and
		crying)
	Tired... I'm tired... aw-ful
	tired...

McMurphy looks around at the others.

Each patient is locked in his own world -- oblivious to
Bancini's state.

EXT. BASKETBALL COURT - DAY

WIDE SHOT of entire court, surrounded by a high fence topped
off with barbed wire, as Washington and Warren escort the
Acutes -- including Bromden, Ellis, a lobotomy case and
several other Chronics -- through the gate onto the court,
which is run down, with cracks in its surface and leaves
scattered everywhere.

Martini, who is carrying the ball, runs ahead, followed by
Scanlon, where he starts dribbling the ball in a frantic
circle, suddenly passes the ball to nothing.

			MARTINI
		(as he throws ball)
	Catch it! Catch it!

The ball rolls to the corner.

			WASHINGTON
	Martini, there ain't nobody there,
	ya dumb goon! Go get the ball!

			MARTINI
	No!

Martini turns away, his feelings hurt. Washington goes after
the ball, when Martini goes running after it.

			MARTINI (CONT'D)
	I get it! I get it!

But Washington gives Martini a body check and beats him to
the ball.

Martini tries to get the ball from Washington, who is quite
agile and teases him as he returns to the court where he and
Warren start shooting baskets, freezing Martini and Scanlon
out.

The other patients just hang around or walk, as if in a
prison yard.

Cheswick stands in close proximity to McMurphy and Harding,
who stand watching the action. McMurphy finally offers a
cigarette to Harding, who accepts. They both light up.

			MCMURPHY
	Well, say, buddy, is that the usual
	pro-cedure for those Group Ther'py
	shindigs? Bunch of chickens at a
	peckin' party?

			HARDING
	A pecking party?

			MCMURPHY
	That's right, buddy. And you want
	to know who pecks the first peck?

			HARDING AND CHESWICK
	Who? Who?

			MCMURPHY
	Ah, come off it! It's that Big
	Nurse, that's who...

The other Acutes have gathered around McMurphy and Harding.

			HARDING
	It's as simple as that. You've been
	on our ward six hours and have
	already simplified the work of
	Freud, Jung and Maxwell Jones in
	one grand analogy: it's a pecking
	party.

			MCMURPHY
	I'm not talking about Fred Yoong or
	Maxwell Jones, buddy, what I'm
	talkin' about is that crummy
	meeting and what that nurse did to
	you!

			HARDING
	Did to me?

			MCMURPHY
	Did to you and all the rest of you
	guys.

			BILLY
	Y-y-yes! Yes! Y-y-y-you s-s-saw wh
	wh-what she c-c-can do to us!

			MCMURPHY
	What did I see 'cept a grown man
	gettin' whipped so bad he can't
	laugh anymore.

			FREDRICKSON
	It's the questions she asks.

			MCMURPHY
	Tell 'er to go straight to hell!

			HARDING
	Miss Ratched is a competent
	psychiatric nurse, not some, some
	kind of monster pecking out our
	eyes!

			MCMURPHY
		(as calm as blue waters)
	She ain't peckin' at your eyes,
	buddy.

McMurphy grabs Harding by his balls and Harding goes up on
his toes.

			MCMURPHY
	She's peckin' at your balls, buddy,
	at your ever-lovin' balls.

Harding is doubled over.

			SEFELT
	That kind of behavior will get you
	a P.A. rating, my friend.

			MCMURPHY
	P.A. What the hell is that?

			SEFELT 
	Potential assaultive.

			FREDRICKSON
	Which gets you shipped up to
	Disturbed for a nice little zap
	job.

			MCMURPHY
	Huh?

			HARDING
	Electro-Shock Therapy, my friend.
	Five cents' worth of electricity
	and you are out of everybody's
	hair.

			MCMURPHY
	Tell 'er to go to hell anyway!

			HARDING (CONT'D)
	And if you persist in your ways,
	they can always ship you over to
	Medical Surgery.

			MCMURPHY
	What for?

			HARDING (CONT'D)
	Lobotomy!

			MCMURPHY
	Lobotomy?

			HARDING (CONT'D)
		(pointing to lobotomy
		case)
	That!

McMurphy looks.

SHOT OF A LOBOTOMY CASE

A vegetable, complete with two half-dollar scars in his
forehead.

McMURPHY

As he absorbs this bit of information the basketball rolls to
his feet and he picks it up.

			MCMURPHY
		(to Harding)
	Is that your sense of humor or are
	you tryin' to say somethin'?

			HARDING
	Now, what would I be trying to say?

Martini and Scanlon rush over and try to get the ball.

			SCANLON
	Gimme the ball!

			MARTINI
	No. Me! Me!

			WASHINGTON (O.S.)
	Pass the ball, McMurphy.

McMurphy crosses to the court, bouncing the ball as he goes.
When he reaches the court he holds the ball out to
Washington, who reaches for it, but McMurphy snaps it back
over his shoulder to Martini.

			MCMURPHY
		(turning to Martini)
	Pass it to me, Martini.

Martini holds back.

			MCMURPHY
	C'mon, I'll give it back!

Martini passes to McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
	Atta boy, Martini.

He passes it back to Martini, who laughs and passes it back
to McMurphy, who passes it to Scanlon, who passes to
McMurphy, who passes to Billy, etc. Bromden just stands
watching.

			MCMURPHY
		(encouraging them)
	Back and forth, that's it. Shoot,
	man, we'll be takin' on the New
	York Knicks before we're through...

McMurphy looks to see Big Nurse looking out a window at them.
He catches her eye. She turns away.

			MCMURPHY (V.O)
	Hey-ya, hey-ya, come on, come on,
	I'm waitin' on you suckers, you hit
	or you sit...

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

The MUSIC is PLAYING. The TV is on the six o'clock news as
McMurphy, cards in hand, is dealing blackjack to Cheswick,
Harding, Sefelt, Billy and Martini. Fredrickson and Scanlon
are looking on as Bromden eases up to the game. Cheswick is
at the nurses' station talking to Big Nurse.

			SEFELT
	Hit me!

			MCMURPHY
	Hit, you say? Well well well and
	with a king up, the boy wants a
	hit. Whadaya know.
	So comin' at you and too bad, a
	little lady for the lad and he's
	over the wall and down the road, up
	the hill and dropped his load.

			SEFELT
	Boogered!

McMurphy rakes in Sefelt's cigarettes, adding them to a pile
of loose cigarettes, packs of cigarettes, several cartons of
cigarettes.

As Cheswick sits down, depressed:

			MCMURPHY
	'Kay, place your bets.

			MARTINI
		(holding up a cigarette)
	What's this?

			MCMURPHY
	That's a dime, Martini.

Martini breaks a cigarette in half.

			MARTINI (CONT'D)
	Bet a nickel!

			MCMURPHY
		(to Cheswick)
	Whadaya bet, Cheswick?

			CHESWICK
	She won't give me any more
	cigarettes!

			MCMURPHY
	That okay. I'll take your marker.
	How many ya want?

			CHESWICK (CONT'D)
	Lend me twenty.

McMurphy counts out twenty cigarettes, marks it down on a
piece of paper, and passes the cigarettes to Cheswick, who
bets all twenty.

The Sports have come on TV and McMurphy's attention is
divided.

			MCMURPHY
		(checking the board)
	'Kay, all bets are down, let's
	wheel 'em an' deal 'em.

He deals the cards out, the first one face down, then the
next one face up.

			MCMURPHY
	Big king... little deuce... another
	king... a lovely lady... big ten...
	and a trey... hey, hey, whadaya
	say? Ya hit or sit, Martini?

			MARTINI
	Hit me.

			MCMURPHY
		(hits with a picture)
	That's twenty up, Martini.
		(turning to TV, he shouts
		across room)
	Hey, Taber, who's pitching the
	opening game?

Taber calls back something but it's lost in the other sounds.

			MARTINI (CONT'D)
	Hit me!

			MCMURPHY
	Wait a minute, Martini, I can't
	hear a thing.
		(turning back to Taber)
	What?

			TABER
		(shouting back)
	Koufax against Ford!

			MISS PILBOW (V.O.)
		(over loudspeaker)
	Medication time! Medication time!
	Medication!

			MARTINI
		(simultaneously with
		Pilbow)
	Hit me!

McMurphy slams his cards down, stands up, crosses the day
room, heading for the nurses' station. He passes Washington,
who stands there waiting to dispense orange juice.

INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT

as McMurphy enters. Nurse Pilbow is the only one there.

			MCMURPHY
	Pardon me miss, but would you mind
	turning...

			NURSE PILBOW
		(scared out of her wits)
	Stay back! Patients aren't allowed
	to enter the... Oh, stay back!

			MCMURPHY
	All I'm askin' is...

Nurse Pilbow grabs at her cross, screams and shuts her eyes,
holding the cross in front of her.

			NURSE PILBOW (CONT'D)
	Oh, stay back, I'm a Catholic!

Big Nurse enters from the nurses' lounge.

			BIG NURSE
	Mister McMurphy. Patients aren't
	allowed in here.

			MCMURPHY
	Sorry, ma'am.

McMurphy steps out of the station, closing the door behind
him.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

as McMurphy goes around to the front of the nurses' station
and queues up behind the other Acutes who are getting their
medication. McMurphy reaches the window, takes the cup, but
doesn't take his pills.

			MCMURPHY
		(to Big Nurse)
	Pardon me, ma'am, can I ask you
	somethin'?

			BIG NURSE
		(politely)
	Yes, Mister McMurphy?

			MCMURPHY
	How 'bout turning off that music
	for a while so a man can hear
	himself think?

			BIG NURSE
		(pleasantly)
	That music is for everyone, Mister
	McMurphy.

McMurphy leans in, placing his hand on the window.

			MCMURPHY
		(confidentially)
	Well, say, how 'bout easin' it down
	a bit so a man don't have to shout!

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
		(aware of his physical
		proximity)
	Mister McMurphy, there are old men
	here who couldn't hear the music at
	all if it were lower. That music is
	all they have, and I wish you
	wouldn't lean against the glass
	there, your hands are staining the
	window.

McMurphy jerks his hand away.

			MCMURPHY
	Sorry, ma'am... Sorry 'bout that...

McMurphy breathes on the glass and wipes it clean with his
sleeve.

			MCMURPHY
	Sorry to have bothered you.

			BIG NURSE 
	Not at all, Mister McMurphy...

McMurphy turns to walk away.

			NURSE PILBOW
	Your medicine, Mister McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
		(turning back, he examines
		the contents of the cup)
	What's the horse pill for, honey?

			NURSE PILBOW
	It's just medication, Mister
	McMurphy, good for you. Now down it
	goes...

			MCMURPHY
	Look, miss, I don't like swallowing
	something without knowing what it
	is!

			NURSE PILBOW 
		(stepping back a little)
	Don't get upset, Mister McMurphy...

			MCMURPHY
	I'm not upset. All I wanna know,
	for the lovva Jesus...

			BIG NURSE
	That's all right, Miss Pilbow, if
	Mister McMurphy does not wish to
	take his medication orally, he
	may...

			MCMURPHY
	No, that's okay, ma'am. Down it
	goes.

McMurphy makes a big show of popping the pill in his mouth,
holding his paper cup upside down, for all to see, then
moving on to Washington, who fills it with orange juice.

McMurphy gulps it down, not without some difficulty, then he
smiles at all the concerned faces and crosses the room to the
card table, where he sits to see the Acutes looking at him.

			HARDING
	Why didn't you tell her to go to
	hell, lover boy?

			TABER
	Yeah, whattsa matter, Mack, she too
	much for ya?

McMurphy holds the pill up and flicks it into Harding's
forehead.

			MCMURPHY
	You boys seem to think you've got a
	champ in there, huh?

			HARDING
	I don't see you scoring any points,
	buddy. And you're just the man for
	the job, right?

			MCMURPHY
	Hell, I couldn't get it up over old
	hatchet-face if ya paid me!

			HARDING (CONT'D)
	She's not all that homely, Mister
	McMurphy. In fact, she must have
	been a rather beautiful young lady.

The men look at Big Nurse.

The patients look at the nurses' station.

PATIENTS' POV

Big Nurse is busy at her work.

INT. NURSES STATION - BIG NURSE'S POV - NIGHT

The patients looking at her. They turn back to their card
game.

REVERSE ANGLE

CAMERA HOLDS on Big Nurse as McMurphy's VOICE is HEARD over
INTERCOM.

			MCMURPHY (V.O.)
		(through intercom)
	Yeah, an' I'm tellin' ya, she's
	just an icy-hearted over-the-hump
	gal who never got enough of the old
	wham-bam to straighten 'er out...
	Okay, who wants a card?

			MARTINI (V.O.)
		(through intercom)
	Me. Hit me!

Big Nurse looks up and studies the men gathered round the
table.

INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT

The patients are asleep except for Bromden, who stands by the
window looking out.

McMurphy is asleep in the bed next to his. A beat when
TURKLE, a fifty-year-old Negro night attendant, slightly
drunk, lays a gentle hand on Bromden's shoulder.

			TURKLE
	Le's get back to bed, Mistah
	Bromden...

Bromden allows himself to be led back to bed. Turkle fumbles
around for the security belt, finds it, straps Bromden
loosely in bed, then goes off clucking to himself.

Bromden reaches under his bed and plucks a stale piece of gum
from under the bed frame. He starts chewing it when he sees
McMurphy looking at him.

Bromden goes right on chewing and looking McMurphy right in
the eye.

			MCMURPHY
		(whispering)
	Chief? I wanna ask ya somethin'.
		(sings)
	Oh, does the spearmint lose its
	flavor on the bedpost overnight?
	When you chew it in the morning,
	will it be too hard to bite? This
	question's got me goin', won't
	somebody set me right; does the
	spearmint lose its flavor on the
	bedpost overnight?

McMurphy holds the last note, reaches over and rustles
through his nightstand.

			MCMURPHY
	Here ya go, Chief...

A small object lands on Bromden's bed. It is a fresh package
of gum. Bromden picks it up. Examines it. Unwraps it.
Deposits his old piece of gum under the bed frame, then
inserts the fresh gum in his mouth and starts chewing.

SERIES OF SHOTS

SHOWING the MEN'S DORM, the empty DAY ROOM, TURKLE ASLEEP in
the NURSES' STATION, EMPTY HALLWAYS, the NIGHT SUPERINTENDENT
AT HER DESK, MORE HALLWAYS... ENDING ON:

INT. MEN'S DORM - SUNRISE

ABERRATED SHOT of INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS SEEN THROUGH STEEL
MESH SCREEN -- as the sun rises above the treetops.

REVERSE SHOT - BROMDEN

looking out of the window. His face washed by the sunlight.
His eyes have a vague look, almost vacuous, as...

			BIG NURSE (V.O.)
		(through loudspeaker)
	Good morning, boys. Rise and shine.
	Rise and shine.

INT. MEN'S DORM - DAY

as Washington, Warren and Miller roust the patients out of
bed.

			BIG NURSE (V.O.)
		(through loudspeaker)
	Time to got up! Come on now, it's a
	beautiful day! Let's not straggle!
	Everybody up, up, up!

McMurphy is in bed, not ready for the world, when Washington
crosses to Bromden, who is looking out the window, and leads
him off.

			WASHINGTON
	Le's go, Chief. Le's go get
	ourselves all nice and clean...
		(to McMurphy)
	You too, Mistah Mack-Murphy!

Washington goes off with Bromden.

CAMERA HOLDS on McMurphy as he slowly pulls it together and
sits on the edge of the bed. He's naked as he opens the
drawer to his nightstand and fishes around for a cigarette.

			MCMURPHY
		(looking in the drawer)
	What the...
		(looking around)
	Who the fuck stole my cigarettes!

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

as the Acutes straggle past Big Nurse.

			BIG NURSE
	Good morning, Mister Sefelt, are
	your teeth any better?... Good
	morning, Mister Fredrickson... Good
	morning, Mister Harding;
	my, my, you've been biting your
	fingernails again...

She sees McMurphy approaching, wearing a towel around his
waist and a scowl on his face.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Mister McMurphy, patients are not
	permitted to run around in towels.

			MCMURPHY
	I wanna report a robbery!

			BIG NURSE
	On this ward?

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, some creep stole my
	cigarettes!

			BIG NURSE 
	Oh, I had them removed.

			MCMURPHY
	What for?

			BIG NURSE 
	Patients are rationed to one pack
	of cigarettes a day.

Bromden comes drifting by, going in the opposite direction.
Big Nurse takes his hand.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
		(calling out)
	Mister Washington!

Washington comes running.

			WASHINGTON
	Yes, Miss Ratched?

			BIG NURSE
	Please see to Mister Bromden.

			WASHINGTON
		(taking Bromden by the
		hand)
	Yes, Miss Ratched...

Washington leads Bromden off. Big Nurse turns to Cheswick and
several other Acutes, who have crowded around.

			BIG NURSE
	Now you boys hurry along and wash
	up for breakfast...
		(to McMurphy)
	You too, Mister McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
	Well, say. How 'bout springing a
	pack of cigarettes loose?

			BIG NURSE
	After breakfast, Mister McMurphy,
	after breakfast.

			MCMURPHY
	You sure run a tight-assed ship
	'round here, don't ya!

			BIG NURSE
	Yes. Now run along like a good boy
	and see that you wash up properly.

WIDER ANGLE

A beat, as the Acutes wait for McMurphy's next move, then:

			MCMURPHY
	'Kay, let's go brush our teeth,
	fellas...

McMurphy turns and crosses toward the washroom, singing at
the top of his lungs.

			MCMURPHY
	Oh, Lulu had a baby,
	His name was Sunny Jim,
	She put 'im in a piss pot,
	To teach 'im how to swim.
	Oh, he swam to the bottom,
	He swam to the top,
	Lulu got excited,
	An' pulled 'im by his...
	Cock-tail ginger-ale,
	Five cents a glass,
	An' if ya don't like it
	Ya can shove it up your...
	Ask me no more questions,
	I'll tell ya no more lies.

BIG NURSE

watching McMurphy who removes his towel as he enters the
washroom.

INT. WASHROOM - DAY

as McMurphy enters to see Warren take a firm grip on
Bromaen's head and Washington goes to work on Bromden's face.
CAMERA PUSHES INTO EXTREME CLOSEUP of Bromden's fearfully
distorted face as the BUZZING SOUND of the ELECTRIC RAZOR
INTENSIFIES until it is INSUPPORTABLE.

INT. MESS HALL - DAY

We SEE the attendants spooning food into the sucking pink
mouths of the vegetables, a shade too fast for swallowing.

			MCMURPHY (O.S.)
	What's wrong with you guys?

We SEE McMurphy seated with the Acutes, shoveling food down
his guillet. The others are barely touching their food.

			MCMURPHY
	Why, if I'd have known how soft
	this place was gonna be, I'd have
	arranged for my transfer sooner...
		(holding up his orange
		juice)
	Look at this here, real orange
	juice!
		(slugging it down)
	Hooee, that's good. Why, you
	couldn't pay me to leave this
	place!
		(slaps his belly)
	All this place lacks is a couple of
	sweet gals to liven things up...

He gets up and carries his tray to the proper place, where he
notices Miller loading several other trays onto a dumbwaiter.
Miller pushes a button and the dumbwaiter goes down. McMurphy
crosses to the door to find it blocked by Washington.

			MCMURPHY
	Stand aside, Sam, Nature's callin'.

			WASHINGTON
	Nobody leaves here till seven
	thirty.

McMurphy turns Washington over in his mind, then he looks up
at the clock above the door.

The time is 7:28. The second hand sweeping its way toward
7:29.

			MCMURPHY
	Don't know if I can hold it that
	long, Sam.

			WASHINGTON (CONT'D)
	Tha's your problem.

			MCMURPHY
		(confidentially)
	Who do you like in the opening
	game, Sam?

			WASHINGTON (CONT'D)
	Huh?

			MCMURPHY
		(turning away)
	Asshole.

McMurphy turns and walks away.

Washington watches him go.

			CHESWICK (V.O.)
	I wanna know about my cigarettes!

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

A group meeting is in progress. Doctor Spivey is there.

Cheswick is on his feet.

			BIG NURSE
	Sit down, Mister Cheswick.

			CHESWTCK
		(not sitting)
	No, I ain't no kid to have my
	cigarettes keep from me like
	cookies! Ain't that right, Mack!
		(McMurphy doesn't respond)
	Mack???

			BIG NURSE
	Sit down, Mister Cheswick!

Cheswick sits -- stunned. A beat; then:

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
		(to Cheswick)
	You should have thought about that
	before you gambled all your
	cigarettes away. Is that clear?

Cheswick sulks in his seat.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Mister Cheswick, is that clear!

			CHESWICK
	Yeah...

			BIG NURSE
	Good...
		(opens her book)
	Now, as I recall, we were making
	quite a bit of headway, last time,
	with Mister Harding's problem. So,
	does anyone care to begin?

McMurphy's hand goes up. No one else's does.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Yes, Mister McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
	Right... I've been givin' some
	serious consideration to what you
	told me about the democratic
	something of this therapeutic
	community of ours, an' I got a few
	things I wanna get off my chest,
	before we get back to Harding's
	problem.

			BIG NURSE
	Certainly, Mister McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
	Right!

McMurphy takes a folded sheet of paper out of his pocket,
unfolds it, studies it and begins.

			MCMURPHY
	'Kay... Item one... I've been
	thinkin' 'bout the age problem we
	got on this ward. You know, the
	young an' old livin' together, an'
	I was thinkin' what a great thing
	it would be if the music was turned
	up louder. Louder so the old fellas
	could hear better...

Doctor Spivey nods with approval.

Big Nurse doesn't.

The Acutes are bewildered.

			MCMURPHY
	But then I got to thinkin', the
	music is so loud already, it makes
	it difficult for the young fellas
	to hold a decent conversation...

Nods and murmurs of approval from the Acutes.

Big Nurse can only wait for McMurphy's next move.

			MCMURPHY
	Well, I was turnin' this dilemma
	over in my head, when I happened to
	hit on that old tub room out there,
	an' I said to myself, McMurphy, I
	said, that place would make a great
	second day room. A sort of game
	room for the young fellas. Whadaya
	think, Doc?

			SPIVEY
	It is worth considering... Miss
	Ratched?

			BIG NURSE
	The point is well taken, Doctor,
	but do we have the necessary
	personnel to cover a second day
	room?

			SPIVEY
	Well, since it will be largely the
	Chronics who remain here, one aide
	and one nurse should easily be able
	to handle any situation that might
	occur.
		(he turns to the patients)
	What do you think, men, is it
	workable?

			CHESWICK
	Right, Doc. It's workable.

Several other Acutes voice in the affirmative.

			SPIVEY
	Fine!

			BIG NURSE
	Good. Good. Yes, yes, I think we
	should give it a trial period. So!
	May we get back to Mister Harding's
	problem...
		(she sees McMurphy's hand
		up)
	Yes, Mister McMurphy?

			MCMURPHY
	I'm not finished yet.

			BIG NURSE 
	Go on...

			MCMURPHY
		(looking at his list)
	'Kay, item two. Tomorrow, and
	listen carefully to me, you ding-a
	lings. Tomorrow is the opening game
	of the World Series an' what I want
	is to take a vote on switchin' the
	group meetin' to later on in the
	day, so we can watch the ballgame.

			BIG NURSE
	Just a minute, Mister McMurphy!

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah?

			BIG NURSE 
	Please understand, the schedule has
	been set up for a delicately
	balanced reason that would be
	thrown into turmoil by a switch of
	routines.

			MCMURPHY
	The hell with the schedule, you can
	get back to the schedule next week
	when the series is over. What I
	want is a vote on it right now!

			CHESWICK
	I second the motion!

			MCMURPHY
	Atta boy, Cheswick!

			BIG NURSE
	Very well! All those in favor,
	please raise your hands.

Big Nurse casts a watchful eye over the patients.

			MCMURPHY
		(raising his hand)
	Okay, raise your hands.

Only Cheswick's goes up.

			MCMURPHY
	Come on', what is this crap? Who
	wants to watch the World Series?

Martini and Scanlon's hands go up.

Several Acutes look at them.

Scanlon and Martini's hands go down.

McMurphy can't believe his eyes.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
		(politely)
	I count only two, including you,
	Mister McMurphy. Certainly not
	enough to change ward policy.

McMurphy's hand goes down.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Yes. Now was there anything else
	you wanted to discuss, Mister
	McMurphy?

			MCMURPHY
	No way.

			CHESWICK
	No way.

McMurphy starts tearing his sheet of paper up into a thousand
pieces.

			BIG NURSE
		(checking her watch)
	Then I suggest we turn our
	attention back to Mister Harding's
	problem. Would anybody care to
	begin?

She looks around.

McMurphy is slouched in his chair.

Harding puts his hands up. No one else does.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Yes, Mister Harding?

			HARDING
	Yes, thank you, Miss Ratched. Since
	our last meeting I have been
	reflecting, quite seriously, on the
	nature of my problem. Naturally,
	I'm referring to the capacity to
	obtain the necessary results in
	order to obtain... No, no. To
	personify the very existence of
	that relationship regardless of the
	function...
		(he stops, chews his lip,
		then continues)
	Regardless of the function, we will
	confront the question of... Yes.
	Yes. The question of...
	Existence... Relationship...
	Function... Confront... Yes,
	confronting us in the moment of
	deepest crisis... Yes, the crisis
	of our souls. Of our souls, which I
	am trying to fully understand the
	problem... the problem. Not to shut
	ourselves off, but somehow...
	Somehow to understand fully our
	capacity... to obtain... to
	personify... the question...
	existence depends... depends on the
	question... to reflect... to
	reflect...

Harding, breaks off, sweating; he begins to knead his
forehead and chew his nails.

			HARDING (CONT'D)
	To reflect...

ANGLE

Silence as the CAMERA REFLECTS: the room, the patients, the
staff, the hallways, the hospital, the grounds, the trees,
the sky, ending on.

			MARTINI (V.O.)
	Hold it a minute. What's a man need
	to buy thum hotels?

INT. TUB ROOM - NIGHT

Bromden is pressed against the wall, watching McMurphy,
Martini, Scanlon and Cheswick play a game of monopoly. The
others are playing cards or just hanging around, a little
chagrined. Billy is most disturbed by this separation.

			MCMURPHY
	You need four houses on every lot
	of the same color, Martini. Now
	let's go, for Christsakes.

			MARTINI
	Hold it a minute.

There's a flurry of money from Martini, red, green and yellow
bills blowing in every direction.

			CHESWICK
	Let's go, for Christsakes...

			MCMURPHY
	It's your dirty roll, Cheswick.

Cheswick rolls the dice.

			MCMURPHY
	Snake eyes! Hoooeee, that puts you
	on my Marvin Gardens, which means
	you owe me three hundred and fifty
	dollars.

Cheswick starts counting out the money.

			MARTINI
	What's thum other things? Hold it a
	minute. What's thum other things
	all over the board?

			CHESWICK
		(to Martini)
	How can a man concentrate with you
	sitting there hallucinating a mile
	a minute...

			MCMURPHY
	You just come on with that three
	fifty and Martini will take care of
	himself... Your dice, Scanlon.

			SCANLON
	Gimme those dice. I'll blow this
	board to pieces. Here we go... 
		(throws the dice)
	Lebenty leben, count me over
	eleven, Martini...

Martini picks up a house...

			SCANLON (CONT'D)
	Not that one, you crazy bastard,
	that's my house...

Scanlon grabs Martini's hand and tries to get his piece back.
Martini won't let go.

			MCMURPHY
	Break it up, God dammit! Ain't I
	got enough troubles without you
	guys messin' around... can't depend
	on nobody.

			BILLY
		(from the next table)
	Some of us ha-ha-have b-b-been here
	a long t-t-time, Randle, and will b
	b-be here long after this Wo-Wo
	World Series of yours is oh-oh-oh,
	what's the use anyway...

McMurphy slams his fist down on the table, sending the
monopoly pieces flying. Martini is crestfallen.

			MCMURPHY
	What's the use! Hooee! It'd do you
	birds some good just to get a
	little exercise lifting your arms
	to vote!

			HARDING
	A baseball game isn't worth the
	risk, my friend.

			MCMURPHY
	It is to me! An' if I hafta bust
	way outta this place to see it, I
	will!

			CHESWICK
	Right!

			FREDRICKSON
	Oh, yeah?

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah!

			SEFELT
	Big man!

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, how much you wanna bet?

			SEFELT 
	On what?

			MCMURPHY
	That me an' my buddy, Cheswick,
	we'll be downtown tomorrow watchin'
	the ballgame while you suckers are
	sittin' around this goddamn
	nursery!

			HARDING
	And how do you propose to
	accomplish that little feat, my
	friend?

			MCMURPHY
	That's between me an' myself. So
	why don't you boys just shove off.
	I got some planning to do.

McMurphy sits and resumes his game of solitaire. Martini and
Scanlon are putting the monopoly game back together again.

Bromden spots (or he thinks he spots) one of the attendants
listening at the door. He wants to warn the others, but
doesn't know how.

			SEFELT
	Maybe he'll just show Miss Ratched
	his big thing an' she'll open the
	door for him.

Sefelt and Frederickson smile at each other.

Bromden slides along the wall toward the door.

			MCMURPHY
	Maybe I'll just use that thick
	skull of yours as a batterin' ram,
	Sefelt.

			SEFELT (CONT'D)
	Why, my head would just squash like
	an eggplant, McMurphy.

Fredrickson and Sefelt snicker in their hands.

			MCMURPHY
	You think it's funny, huh?

			TABER
	Yeah, you don't know how to get
	outta this place!

Bromden reaches the door and looks out. No one is there.

			MCMURPHY
	Put your money where your mouth is,
	Taber.

			TABER (CONT'D)
	Yeah, yeah, you're a fucking phony,
	McMurphy!

Bromden turns back to the room to see McMurphy slam his fist
down on the table; the monopoly game goes flying.

			MCMURPHY
		(rising and turning on the
		others, who back off)
	You want me to show ya! You want me
	to show ya how!

			TABER (CONT'D)
	Yeah, yeah, show me. Show me how!

			MCMURPHY
	All right!

He looks wildly around the room, spots the machine, crosses
to it and smacks it with his hand.

			MCMURPHY
	With this thing! I'm gonna put this
	thing right through the window,
	that's how!

			HARDING
	You mean you're going to try to
	pick that thing up and shove it
	through the window?

			MCMURPHY
	You're fuckin' A-right, I am!

			HARDING (CONT'D)
	With your own two hands?

			MCMURPHY
	You heard me the first time!

			TABER
	I'll bet a buck you don't do it!

			MCMURPHY
	You're on!

			BILLY
	M-M-Mack, y-y-y-you c-c-can't l-l
	lift that thing!

			MCMURPHY
	Stand aside, son. Any more takers?

			SEFELT
	I'll bet a dollar.

			FREDRICKSON
	Me, too...

			MCMURPHY
	Right!

			MARTINI
	A nickel.

			SCANLON
	A dime.

			MCMURPHY
	Okay. Who else?

			HARDING
	Twenty-five dollars.

			MCMURPHY
		(knows he's taking a bad
		bet)
	Okay, Harding, you're on.

			HARDING 
	Okay, sucker.

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah... Okay, stand aside, you
	guys! You're usin' up my oxygen!

The Acutes stand aside and McMurphy steps up to the machine.

He shifts his feet to get a good stance, wipes his hands on
his thighs, leans down and gets hold of the levers on each
side, and strains.

Bromden watches, in awe of McMurphy.

McMurphy turns loose, straightens up and shifts his feet for
a better position.

			HARDING
	Giving up?

			MCMURPHY
	Just warmin' up.

He grabs the levers again. His whole body shakes with the
strain. For just a second we HEAR the cement GRIND. Then his
breath explodes and he falls back limp against the wall.
There's blood on his hands. No sound but his rasping breath.
He opens his eyes and looks around. Then pulls out a
pocketful of IOU's and tries to sort them out, but his hands
are frozen into red claws. He throws the whole bundle on the
floor and walks out. At the door, he turns back.

			MCMURPHY
	But I tried. Goddammit, I sure as
	hell did that much. Didn't I?

McMurphy exits.

REACTION SHOT OF ACUTES

SHOT OF BROMDEN

looking at the machine. A long beat.

INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT

The patients are getting ready for bed when Billy approaches
McMurpby, who is in bed.

			BILLY
	M-M-Mack...

McMurphy turns away from Billy, who crosses to the other side
of the bed.

			BILLY (CONT'D)
	M-M-Mack, I-I-I'm sorry!

			HARDING
	Leave him alone, he's pouting.

			BILLY
	Y-Y-Y-You leave him alone!

			MCMURPHY
	That's okay, kid...

			BILLY 
	Th-th-then y-y-you're n-n-not m-m
	mad?

			MCMURPHY
	No, kid, it was my own stupidity,
	that's what pissed me off.

			BILLY 
	O-o-o-oh...

			MCMURPHY
	What we're gonna have to do is pull
	this ballclub together for our next
	play. 'Kay!

			BILLY
	'K-k-kay, Mack!

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Washington, Warren and Miller are at the end of the hallway,
listening to a small RADIO. We can HEAR the SPORTS ANNOUNCER
giving the line-up for the opening game of the World Series.

			WASHINGTON'S POV
	Way down the hall, the Group
	Meeting is SEEN in progress.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

A Group Meeting is in progress and Big Nurse is honed in on
Billy.

			BIG NURSE
	Try, Billy, try...

Billy tries, but can't talk.

The other Acutes are bored, restive, waiting.

McMurphy has ants in his pants as Big Nurse speaks to Billy.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Was it your idea to visit her on
	Sunday?

			BILLY
	Y-y-y-yes...

			BIG NURSE
	Tell us about it...

			BILLY
	I-I-I-I c-c-c-came over S-S-S
	Sunday m-m-m-morning after ch-ch-ch
	church and br-br-brought her s-s
	some flowers, and I s-s-said, I
	said, 'C-C-C-Celia, will you muh
	muh-muh-muh-muh...' till the girl
	broke out l-l-laughing.

Billy laughs at himself.

			BIG NURSE
	What was it about her that
	disturbed you so, Billy?

			BILLY
		(rubbing scars on his
		wrist)
	I was in luh-love with her.

			BIG NURSE
	Billy, were you afraid of her, or
	of her love?

No response from Billy.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	That was the first time you
	attempted to commit suicide, wasn't
	it?
		(no response)
	You must try to talk about it,
	Billy.

			MCMURPHY
	Jesus Christ, the man doesn't want
	to talk, so get off his back an'
	let's get on to some new business.

			BIG NURSE 
	Mister McMurphy, the purpose of
	this meeting is therapy. Group
	therapy.

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, yeah, the hell with that
	crap! The World Series is goin' on
	right' now an' that's therapy also!

			BIG NURSE 
	Let me pose a question to the
	group: do any of you feel that
	Mister McMurphy is perhaps imposing
	his personal desires on you too
	much?

			MCMURPHY
	What the hell does that have to do
	with it? This is an important event
	and I want a vote on it!

			CHESWICK
	Yeah, let's vote on it!

			BIG NURSE
	Will one more vote satisfy you?

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, it'll satisfy me.

			BIG NURSE 
	Very well. What is it you're
	proposing, Mister McMurphy?

			MCMURPHY
	I'm proposing a re-vote on watchin'
	the ballgame!

			BIG NURSE 
		(to the patients)
	A vote is before the group.

			MCMURPHY
	Okay, I wanna see the hands. I
	wanna see which of you birds has
	any guts.

			BIG NURSE 
	Everyone in favor of changing the
	schedule raise his hand.

The first hand to come up is Cheswick's. Then McMurphy's.
Then Martini, Scanlon, Sefelt, Fredrickson, Billy and Taber.

Harding doesn't vote.

Big Nurse starts counting the hands.

McMurphy, his face beaming, counts the hands.

			MCMURPHY
	That's it! We made it!

			BIG NURSE
	I'm sorry, Mister McMurphy, I count
	only eight.

			MCMURPHY
	So do I!

			BIG NURSE 
	But there are eighteen patients on
	the ward, Mister McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
		(the light dawning)
	You mean to tell me you're gonna
	count those old birds over there?

			BIG NURSE 
	I'm sorry, Mister McMurphy, but you
	must have a majority to change ward
	policy.

			MCMURPHY
	Well, I'll be a son-of-a-bitch...

			BILLY
	B-But, M-M-Miss R-Ratched, y-you n
	never c-c-counted th-their votes
	before!

A beat.

			BIG NURSE
		(losing ground)
	You mean you don't want their votes
	to count, Billy!

			BILLY
	I-I-I...

			MCMURPHY
	Well, screw that noise!

McMurphy rises and, taking his chair, he crosses toward the
television set.

			BIG NURSE
	Sit down, Mister McMurphy!

McMurphy turns the TV on, flips the channel, then sits and
waits for a picture.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	I want you to turn the television
	off and return to your place!

A picture swirls onto the TV screen. The ballgame is in
progress (documentary footage to be used).

Martini rushes over and joins McMurphy. Scanlon follows hot
on his heels as --

			MCMURPHY
	Hoo-wee! Man, all I need me now is
	a can of beer and a red-hot.

Cheswick gets up and starts across when --

			BIG NURSE
	Sit down, Mister Cheswick.

Cheswick stops and stands there, helpless to move.

			CHESWICK
	Mack...

McMurphy is deep into the game.

INSERT - TV SCREEN

On the screen a great play is taking place, and at the
breathtaking moment the TV picture swirls into a little eye
of light -- then nothing.

BACK TO SCENE

The Acutes are left with their mouths hanging open.

			BIG NURSE (V.O.)
		(over loudspeaker)
	I want you men to return to your
	proper places. The group meeting is
	not over!

McMurphy continues looking at the blank TV screen as the
Acutes look from McMurphy to Big Nurse, not knowing what to
do next when --

			MCMURPHY
		(jumping up and shouting
		at the blank TV screen)
	A hit! It's a hit! He's rounding
	first, heading for second. Here
	comes the throw. He's sliding...
	and... he's safe! He's safe!
		(McMurphy whistles and
		claps his hands)
	Hoo-wee! Whatta game! Whatta game!
	Come on, Koufax! Strike 'em out!

The Acutes are stunned at McMurphy's outburst.

			BIG NURSE (V.O.)
		(over loudspeaker)
	Mister McMurphy, you are
	deliberately violating the
	rules!...

			MCMURPHY
	He's into his wind-up. Here comes
	the pitch. Strike on the inside
	corner!

Sefelt, Fredrickson, Billy and Taber get up and cross toward
the TV. Harding is the only one who doesn't join them.

			BIG NURSE (V.O.)
		(over loudspeaker)
	You men remain seated!

			MCMURPHY
		(focusing in on TV screen)
	He's into his wind-up. Here's the
	next pitch... and it's a hit! It's
	a hit!

			MARTINI
		(jumping up and down)
	I saw thum! I saw thum!

			SCANLON
	Me, too! Me, too!

			SEFELT
	Yes, I see it! I see it!

			MCMURPHY
		(on his feet, shouting)
	Ya-hoo, let's'play ball!

The other Acutes pick up on McMurphy and start shouting at
the blank TV screen.

			ACUTES
	Ya-hoo! 
	It's a hit! 
	A triple! 
	It's a home run! 
	A double! 
	He's out! 
	Whadaya blind? 
	He's safe by a mile! 
		(AD LIB)

			BIG NURSE (V.O.)
		(over loudspeaker)
	You boys, stop this and go to your
	assignments! Mister McMurphy, I
	want you to set an example...

			MCMURPHY
	'Kay, it's two outs, bases loaded
	as Koufax steps up to the mound...
	Checks the runners... goes into his
	wind-up... Here comes the three-two
	pitch... And it's a fly ball into
	deep center. Mantle is going back.
	He's going back! Back! His back is
	up against the wall... and... he
	catches it! He catches it!

The Acutes are shouting, cheering, stomping and dancing in
each other's arms.

			BIG NURSE'S VOICE
		(over loudspeaker)
	You men stop this! Mister
	Washington! Miller! Warren!

Big Nurse's last words overload the intercom and the system
peaks out. Big Nurse's mouth continues to work in frantic
circles as Washington, Miller and Warren rush to quell the
uproar.

INT. SPIVEY'S OFFICE - DAY

Doctor Spivey is seated behind his desk, looking over
McMurphy's papers.

McMurphy sits facing him.

			SPIVEY
	How are you feeling?

			MCMURPHY
	Just fine, Doc... In fact, I think
	I might've put on a couple of
	pounds since I got here.

			SPIVEY
	Good, good, and how are you getting
	along on the ward?

			MCMURPHY
	Come on, Doc, you know as well as I
	do what's been comin' down in that
	loony bin.

			SPIVEY 
	Yes, well, Miss Ratched feels that
	you're a disturbing influence on
	the other patients.

			MCMURPHY
	Shoot, Doc, the only one I'm
	disturbing is that old nurse and
	her fixed ways. That's all.

			SPIVEY 
	Yes, that may be so, but in making
	a careful study of your past
	record, along with your behavior
	since you arrived here, my feeling
	is that you are not mentally ill
	and it is going to be my
	recommendation that you be returned
	to Pendleton where they are better
	equipped to handle your case.

This is the kiss of death to McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
	Come on, Doc, you must be kiddin'.

			SPIVEY
	I'm afraid not.

			MCMURPHY
	Jesus, that old nurse sure wants my
	ass in a sling, don't she!

			SPIVEY 
	No, Mister McMurphy, it's just that
	we cannot offer you the guidance
	and assistance that you would
	receive at Pendleton.

			MCMURPHY
	Guidance and assistance! That's
	insane! Doc, ya gotta help me.

			SPIVEY 
	I'm sorry, but I can't keep you
	here.

			MCMURPHY
	When?

			SPIVEY
	We'll let you know.

REACTION SHOT of McMurphy.

EXT. BASKETBALL COURT - DAY

Washington and Warren are sitting on the grass watching
Martini, Scanlon, Harding and Billy, who are positioned on
the court waiting on McMurphy who is under the board with
Bromden.

Cheswick and the other patients hang around off court as:

			MCMURPHY
		(with great physical and
		vocal emphasis throughout
		entire scene)
	Okay, Chief. This is your spot! I
	don't want you to move from this
	spot! Never!... 'Kay, now, take the
	ball! Raise your hands, like
	this...

McMurphy raises his hands above his head. Bromden follows
suit.

			MCMURPHY
	That's good! That's a good boy,
	Chief! Now jump and put it in!

McMurphy jumps. Bromden doesn't. McMurphy does this a couple
of times. Each time Bromden remains motionless.

			HARDING
	He can't hear you!

			MCMURPHY
	I know, goddammit! You don't have
	ta tell me that!

			HARDING 
	So why are you talking to him?

			MCMURPHY
	I'm not talkin' to him! I'm talkin'
	to myself! It helps me think!

			HARDING 
	It doesn't help him.

			MCMURPHY
	Well, it doesn't hurt him either!
		(turning to Bromden)
	Does it, Chief!
		(no response)
	See, it doesn't hurt him.
		(to Bromden)
	Jump! An' put it in!

McMurphy jumps. Bromden doesn't move.

			HARDING
	Well, I think you're just confusing
	him...

Bromden jumps.

			MCMURPHY
	Ha! Did ya see that!
		(calling to Cheswick on
		the sidelines)
	Hey, Cheswick!

			CHESWICK
	Yeah, Mack?

			MCMURPHY
	Come here!

Cheswick runs over.

			CHESWICK
	Yeah, Mack?

			MCMURPHY
	Let me get on your shoulders.

			CHESWICK 
	Sure, Mack...

McMurphy climbs on his shoulders.

			MCMURPHY
	'Kay, wheel me around to the
	basket... 'Kay, easy, easy. Hold
	it! 'Kay, now.
		(he sees Bromden has
		walked away)
	Hey, Chief, come back!

Bromden doesn't hear.

			MCMURPHY
	Cheswick, go get 'im!

Cheswick goes after Bromden, catches him, and McMurphy
latches onto him.

			MCMURPHY
	Now, wheel me to the basket.

Cheswick, straining under the weight of McMurphy, turns
toward the basket.

INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT

as Bromden, chewing his gum, watches McMurphy ease his way
out of bed and silently cross down the aisle, past the sleep
patients, toward the day room.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

as McMurphy crosses the day room, past the nurses' station
where Turkle is asleep.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

as McMurphy crosses down the hallway and stops at the mess
hall door. He tries the handle. The door is locked. McMurphy
looks up at the open transom, ponders it, then jumps up and
grabs the door lintel. He tries to lift himself up, but can't
make it when suddenly he is lifted up to the level of the
transom by Bromden.

McMurphy worms his way through the transom and disappears
down the other side.

CAMERA HOLDS on Bromden who waits. A long beat. There is a
strange HUMMING SOUND HEARD O.S. Another beat, then the door
opens.

McMurphy smiles at Bromden.

			MCMURPHY
		(pointing to the floor)
	Wait here, Chief.
		(more to himself as he
		starts down hall)
	Heh, heh, I'll show 'em who's
	crazy.

INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT

McMurphy is nudging Cheswick awake.

			MCMURPHY
	Hey, Cheswick! Wake up!

			CHESWICK
		(waking up)
	Yeah, Mack, what is it?

			MCMURPHY
	I'm leaving. Goodbye!

			CHESWICK
		(sitting up)
	Where ya goin', Mac?

			MCMURPHY
	Shhh...

McMurphy turns and crosses to Billy.

			MCMURPHY
		(waking Billy)
	Hey, Billy. Billy boy, wake up and
	say goodbye to your ol' buddy.

			BILLY
		(waking up)
	W-w-w-what is it, M-M-Mac?

			MCMURPHY
	So long, kid.

			BILLY
	Wh-wh-wh-wh...

			MCMURPHY
	Shhh...

McMurphy turns from the bewildered Billy and crosses to
Martini.

			MCMURPHY
		(nudging Martini awake)
	Psst! Hey, Martini, wake up!

			MARTINI
		(waking up)
	Yeah, Mac?

			MCMURPHY
	Bye-bye.

McMurphy turns to Scanlon.

			MCMURPHY
	Scanlon! Hey, Scanlon, wake up!

			SCANLON
		(waking up)
	Yeah, what's up?

			MCMURPHY
	Shhhh. See ya around the ball park.

McMurphy crosses to Fredrickson and wakes him.

			FREDRICKSON
		(waking up)
	What? What?

			MCMURPHY
	So long, Freddy. Don't take any
	wooden nickles.

			FREDRICKSON
		(sitting up)
	What?

			MCMURPHY
	Shhh...

The other patients are sitting up, some of them getting out
of bed as McMurphy turns to Sefelt who is snoring. McMurphy
pinches his nose and Sefelt wakes up.

			MCMURPHY
	Bye-bye, pussy cat.

McMurphy crosses to Taber.

			MCMURPHY
		(waking Taber)
	Up an' at 'em, Taber.

			TABER
		(waking up)
	What's going on?

			MCMURPHY
	Shhhh. Time to say goodbye.

McMurphy turns and crosses to Harding.

			MCMURPHY
	Hey, Hard-on. Wake up, Dumbo.

Harding opens his eyes and looks at McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY (CONT'D)
	Ya owe me twenty-five bucks.

			HARDING
	What for?

			MCMURPHY
	I'm busting outta this place.

			HARDING 
	That's nice. Send me a post card.

Harding turns his back to McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
		(turning to the others who
		have gathered around)
	So long suckers.

			BILLY
	Wh-wh-where ya going, M-M-Mac?

			CHESWICK
	How ya gettin' out, Mac?

			MCMURPHY
	Shhh... That's for me to know an'
	you to find out.

			TABER
	Bullshit. You ain't got no way out!

			MCMURPHY
	Oh, yeah?

			TABER
	Yeah!

			MCMURPHY
	How much ya wanna bet?

			TABER (CONT'D)
	Ten bucks.

			MCMURPHY
	You're on.
		(to the others)
	Let's go! An' keep it quiet.

McMurphy starts down the aisle. The others follow.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

as McMurphy and the other patients cross the day room, past
the nurses' station, where Turkle shifts in his sleep.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

as McMurphy and the patients cross down the hallway and enter
the mess hall followed by Bromden.

INT. MESS HALL - NIGHT

Cheswick, Bromden, Martini, Scanlon, Sefelt, Fredrickson,
Billy, Taber and McMurphy, stand looking at the dumbwaiter.

			BILLY
	Wh-wh-what's d-d-down th-there, M-M
	Mac?

			TABER
	Where's it go?

			MCMURPHY
	Out. It's the way out. So just keep
	it in your minds if ya ever wanna
	make use of it.

			TABER 
	I don't believe it...

			FREDRICKSON
	Neither do I...

			SEFELT
	Me too...

			MARTINI
	I wanna see it...

			SCANLON
	Me too! Me too!

			BILLY
	Y-y-yeah, p-p-prove it, M-M-Mac!

			CHESWICK
	Yeah, show us, Mac!

			MCMURPHY
	Shhh. Wait a minute. You guys are
	gonna screw up my plans. So just
	gone on back to bed like nothin'
	happened.

			MARTINI
	No! I wanna go!

			SCANLON
	Me too! Me too!

Several of the others chime in.

			MCMURPHY
	Shhh. Hold it down! I'll take you
	guys down, but ya gotta come right
	back up! 'Kay?

			PATIENTS
		(simultaneously)
	'Kay, Mac!

			MCMURPHY
	Shhh... Remember this is a
	privilege, so I don't want none of
	you goons fuckin' up. Kay?

			PATIENTS
		(simultaneously)
	'Kay, Mac!

			MCMURPHY
	'Kay, let's see...
		(he checks the men out)
	Cheswick first ... then Billy...
	Martini... Scanlon... Sefelt...
	Fredrickson... Taber an' the
	Chief... 'Kay

			PATIENTS
		(simultaneously)
	'Kay!

			MCMURPHY
	Shhh!

INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT

The patients are waiting in the tunnel, which is used as an
underground connecting system to the institutional buildings,
as McMurphy gets out of the dumbwaiter.

			MCMURPHY
		(looking around)
	Where's Martini and Scanlon?

			CHESWICK
		(pointing)
	They went that way.

			MCMURPHY
	Charlie, ya can't ever let those
	goons outta ya sight! Understand!

			CHESWICK
	Right, Mack!

Far down the tunnel Martini and Scanlon are briefly SEEN as
they skitter across the tunnel.

			SEFELT
	There they are!

			MCMURPHY
	Hey, Martini! Psst! Scanlon! Ya
	dumb goons, come back here!
		(starting after them)
	Come on, let's get 'em!

McMurphy starts down the tunnel. The others don't move.

			MCMURPHY
		(calling back)
	Come on, you guys, let's stick
	together.

The Acutes follow McMurphy. They run down to the intersection
and turn the corner.

No sign of Martini or Scanlon.

Somewhere a DOOR is HEARD SLAMMING CLOSED and FOOTSTEPS are
HEARD coming their way.

			TABER
	Somebody's coming!

			MCMURPHY
	Shhh!
		(he listens then)
	This way!

McMurphy hustles the men round the corner as two aides
pushing a gurney come wheeling by.

			BILLY
	I-I-I th-th-think we sh-sh-should
	go back!

			SEFELT
	Yeah, my feet are gettin' cold.

			FREDRICKSON
	Mine, too!

			MCMURPHY
	We'll go back just as soon as we
	find those guys! 'Kay?

			ACUTES
		(simultaneously)
	'Kay, Mack!

The band takes off down tbe tunnel, calling out in loud
whispers, "Martini! Scanlon! Psst! Where are you?"

Down one tunnel and up another -- till they turn a corner and
see an open door.

They go to the door and peer out. Steps lead up to the
outside world.

			MCMURPHY
	They must be up there!

			CHESWICK
	Yeah!

			BILLY
	L-L-Let-'s go b-back!

Several Acutes express the same desire.

			MCMURPHY
	Come on, don't crap out on me now.
	We got two buddies out there!

			BILLY (CONT'D)
	I-I d-d-don't know! M-M-Miss R
	Ratched g-g-g-g...

			MCMURPHY
	Fuck Miss Ratched!

McMurphy crosses out and up the stairs.

The Acutes look at each other. A beat, then:

			MCMURPHY (O.S.)
	Wow! Look at this!

The Acutes don't move.

			MCMURPHY (O.S.)
	Hey, you guys, come on up here and
	take a gander at this!

The Acutes inch their way out the door and up the steps.

EXT. INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS - NIGHT

as the Acutes join McMurphy to see the moon low in the sky,
silhouetting the trees and buildings, and Martini chasing

Scanlon across the wet grounds.

			CHESWICK
	There they are!

			MCMURPHY
		(his attention elsewhere)
	Hey, what's that?

			SEVERAL ACUTES
		(simultaneously)
	What? Where?

			MCMURPHY
		(pointing)
	Over there!

			SEFELT
		(squinting)
	I don't know...

			BILLY
	I-i-it's a b-b-bus!

			MCMURPHY
	A bus?

			BILLY (CONT'D)
	Y-y-yes, a b-b-bus!

			MCMURPHY
	Well, shoot, man! Whadaya say we
	take ourselves a little spin around
	the place.

			TABER
	We'll get in trouble...

			CHESWICK
	Yeah, maybe we ought to go back,
	Mac...

			FREDRICKSON
	Yeah, my feet are cold...

			SEFELT
	My feet hurt...

			BILLY
	I-I-I'm w-w-wet...

			MCMURPHY
		(walking towards the bus)
	Go ahead! Go back!

The Acutes cast frightened looks at each other then go after
McMurphy. Martini and Scanlon join them.

			BILLY (CONT'D)
	H-H-How d-d-do we g-g-get b-back?

McMurphy has reached the bus and begins checking it out.

			TABER
	Yeah, take us back to the
	dumbwaiter, Mac.

			MCMURPHY
	I'm not going back in there. I told
	ya this was a one way trip. Now
	stand aside.

McMurphy lifts the hood to the bus and begins jumping the
wire. The Acutes stand helplessly by as the engine turns over
and catches. McMurphy closes the hood and gets on the bus to
a chorus of, "Please, Mac, take us back... Please..."
McMurphy puts the bus in gear and the bus starts moving. The
Acutes start running alongside of the bus calling out for
McMurphy to take them back.

			MCMURPHY
		(shouting to them)
	Get on assholes!

They leap on.

EXT. INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS - ANOTHER ANGLE - NIGHT

As the bus makes a full circle and stops alongside of
Bromden.

			MCMURPHY
		(waving Bromden onto the
		bus)
	Come on, Chief! Let's go!

Bromden boards the bus. McMurphy lets out a war whoop as he
closes the door and starts the bus moving.

EXT. INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS - NIGHT

as the bus picks up speed and churns across the grounds.

INT. BUS - NIGHT

the Acutes look out with wild-eyed excitement.

EXT. INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS - NIGHT

as the bus careens out the main entrance and down the
thoroughfare.

INT. BUS - NIGHT

as the Acutes cast worried looks at each other.

EXT. HIGHWAY

as the bus turns a corner past a sign that reads: 

DALLES 6, SALMON CREEK 8, DEPOE BAY 11, CAPE LOOKOUT 22,
PORTLAND 46

INT. BUS - NIGHT

McMurphy is singing at the top of his lungs.

			MCMURPHY
		(singing)
	Your horses are hungry,
	That's what she did say,
	Come sit down beside me,
	An' feed them some hay.
	My horses ain't hungry,
	They wontt eat your hay-ay-aeee...

			BILLY
	H-Hey, M-Mack.

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, kid?

			BILLY 
	W-W-Where we g-g-going?

			CHESWICK
	Yeah, where we going?

			MCMURPHY
	I dunno. Where do ya wanna go?

			MARTINI
	I wanna go home!

			SCANLON
	Yeah, it's cold!

			MARTINI
	I'm hungry.

			TABER
	Yeah, we'll miss breakfast!

			MCMURPHY
	Breakfast! Hell, I know just the
	place where we can chow down an'
	thaw out before we shoot back on
	home. 'Kay?

			BILLY
	'K-Kay, M-Mack!

			MCMURPHY
		(singing)
	Soo, fare-the-weel, darlin'.
	I'm gone on my way,
	My wagons are loaded,
	My whip's in my hand...

					DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. DEPOE BAY - DAWN

The dawn is just cracking the horizon as the bus pulls up
behind a corroded tin sheet building. A sign reads: 

DEPOE BAY, SEAMANIS SERVICE, SPORT FISHING, BOATS FOR CHARTER

Beyond the boathouse is the dock with several fishing
trawlers and beyond that -- the open sea.

The door to the bus opens and McMurphy gets out.

			MCMURPHY
		(as he steps out of the
		bus)
	This is it!

as McMurphy walks directly to the wall, alongside the door,
lifts the edge of the siding, comes up with a key, opens the
door and enters.

A beat, then the lights go on inside the building.

SHOT OF BUS

The Acutes' faces pressed against the windows, looking out.

INT. SEAMAN'S BUILDING - DAWN

as McMurphy lifts a cold bottle of beer out of a Coca-Cola
cooler, opens it, takes a long pull on the bottle, then
crosses to the heater and turns it on.

Nearby, a sign reads: ALL EQUIPMENT CAN BE RENTED

On the walls are old photographs of people with their prize
catches. Fishing equipment, tackle and wet weather gear crowd
the room.

There is a counter which McMurphy walks behind and takes a
bag of potato chips off a wall rack, full of beer nuts,
hostess cupcakes, etc.

McMurphy eyes the keyboard to the fishing boats. Several keys
are there.

INSERT - KEYBOARD

with the names of the fishing boats: The Lark. Mary Ann.
Noel. Annabella. The Capri.

INT. BUILDING DEPOE BAY - DAWN

McMurphy studying the board as the Acutes stick their heads
in the door. They're all miserable and cold.

			MCMURPHY
	Come on in an' warm up. You can put
	some of that gear on to keep warm.
	An' there's beer an' Coke in the
	cooler an' some food over here...

They hesitate.

			MCMURPHY
	Come on, don't be shy now, you're
	among friends.

The Acutes come in, Bromden bringing up the rear.

Martini goes for the candy. Scanlon goes for the Coke. Sefelt
and Fredrickson go for the wet weather gear and boots. The
others go to the heater. Bromden stands in the middle of the
room.

			MCMURPHY
	Why don't one of you boys help ol'
	Chief there get warmed up?

Billy goes to Bromden's aid as McMurphy crosses to a window
and looks out.

McMurphy turns and looks out the window. A long beat.

			CHESWICK
	When do you think we'll be going
	back, Mack?

			MCMURPHY
		(looking out the window)
	Come here a minute, Cheswick. You,
	too, Sefelt. Hey, all you guys,
	come over here, I wanna show you
	somethin'.

The Acutes cross to the window and look out, saying, "What?
What is it? Whadaya lookin' at? I don't see a thing."

			MARTINI
	Oh, look at the pretty boat.

ACUTES' POV

Nestled against the dock is a trim fishing trawler,
beautifully framed in the bay window.

			MCMURPHY (V.O.)
	Yeah, did you ever see a boat like
	that? Why, I'll bet you could go
	all the way to Hawaii in that boat!
	Tahiti... the Philippines...
	Tibet...

CAMERA HOLDS on FULL SHOT of the boat.

BACK TO SCENE

A long beat, then we SEE the Acutes, wearing wet weather
gear, complete with boots and squall hats, each man carrying
soda pop, food, fishing equipment, etc., being led onto the
boat by McMurphy who carries a case of beer.

EXT. FISHING BOAT - DAWN

as a white gorge of smoke and water pours from the stern and
the boat pulls away from the dock, leaving a boiling foam of
water.

INT. SHIP'S BRIDGE - DAWN

The entire crew is jammed into the bridge, McMurphy behind
the wheel.

McMURPHY'S POV

as the dock and other fishing boats slip by.

EXT. HARBOR JETTY - DAWN

as the boat passes out of the harbor and heads for the open
sea.

					DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. BOAT DECK - DAY

The sun is up. The engine is dead. The ballgame is HEARD OVER
ship's RADIO. The men are scattered over the boat. Taber and
McMurphy, beer in hand, are sunning themselves, listening to
the ballgame. On the stern Martini and Scanlon are trying to
rig up a pole. Fredrickson gives them a hand. Billy has a
line out. So does Bromden and Sefelt who is seated nearby,
fishing the ocean floor when he suddenly gets a bite and
looks over the side, surprised. His line goes straight down
into the depths. His glasses fall off into the water. Sefelt
sighs and slowly begins reeling his line in.

Billy gets a strike and starts fighting the fish.

			BILLY
	H-H-Help!

			MCMURPHY
	Ease up on the star drag, keep the
	tie up, up and work hell outta that
	fella.

Martini gets a strike and loses it. Scanlon comes up and
starts to take the pole from him.

			SCANLON
	My turn.

			MARTINI
		(hanging onto the pole)
	No.

They start a tug of war. Fredrickson tries to break it up,
when he gets a strike and his line spins out.

Billy's fish breaks into the sun in a shower of silver
scales, and he gets so excited he lets the end of the pole go
down and the line snaps.

			MCMURPHY
	Up, I told you! Keep that tip up...
	up! You had you one big silver
	there.

Fredrickson lands his salmon in a spray of scales and blood.

The fish is flopping all over the deck. Billy grabs the fish
and wrestles it down.

Bromden lands a fish when --

			SEFELT (O.S.)
	Oh, my God! I see something!

Everyone rushes over to Sefelt and looks down into the water.

REVERSE SHOT

Deep down in the water a gigantic white form slowly rises out
of the depths, becoming solid, alive.

			SCANLON
	Jesus God...

			MARTINI
	What is it?

			FREDRICKSON
	We'll never get that on the boat.

The fish is now clearly SEEN.

			BILLY
		(calling)
	M-M-Mack! M-M-Mack!

McMurphy pulls himself up.

			MCMURPHY
	What is it, kid?

			BILLY 
	C-C-Come here and l-look at th
	this!

McMurphy crosses down and looks over the side.

			MCMURPHY
	He's a big flounder. Could weigh
	two, three hundred. You got to lift
	him in with a winch.

			FREDRICKSON
	Does that mean we have to cut him
	loose?

			MCMURPHY
	Like hell we will! We got the
	muscle standing right here. All we
	need is a couple gaffin' hooks and
	some rope.

			BILLY
	I-I-I'll get them.

			MARTINI
	Me, too.

			SCANLON
	Me, too.

McMurphy turns to Sefelt who is sweating under the strain.

			MCMURPHY
	Steady does it, Sefelt!

SEFELT'S POV

The massive fish is closer to the surface.

					DISSOLVE TO:

BACK TO SCENE

All the men are standing by as gaffing hooks and rope are
made ready. The fish is gaffed and slowly hauled out of the
water.

McMurphy and Bromden lean over, held by the others, grab the
big fish by its gills and, with a heave-ho, the fish is slid
in and flopped to the bottom of the boat. The men go
sprawling over the big fish. There's a lot of laughter,
handshakes and back-slapping going on when --

			VOICE
		(over bull horn)
	All right! Stand to! Stand to!

The men look up.

REVERSE SHOT - ACUTES' POV

Off the bow is a Coast Guard cutter, and on the deck stands
Doctor Spivey, Washington, Warren and several other aides
dressed in white.

INT. HALLWAY - STATE HOSPITAL - LATE AFTERNOON

as the Acutes, sunburned and covered with dried brine and
fish scales, are escorted down the hallway by Washington,
Warren and Doctor Spivey.

It's a triumphant procession as they wheel the giant flounder
with a sheet over it on a gurney, holding up their catches
for all to see.

McMurphy is lagging a bit behind as they pass the mess hall
where workmen are busy installing a security screen over the
transom, while inside the mess hall another workman is SEEN
welding a lock on the dumbwaiter.

INT. DAY ROOM

as Big Nurse steps out of the Nurses' Station.

			SPIVEY
		(to Big Nurse)
	Here they are, Miss Ratched. Safe
	and sound!

			BIG NURSE
	Good. Well, boys, did you enjoy
	yourselves?

A burst of exuberance as the inmates hold up their fish.

			FREDRICKSON
		(to Sefelt)
	Show her the one you caught, Jim.

Sefelt whips the sheet off the big fish.

			BIG NURSE
	My, my...

No one can find superlatives or gestures big enough to
describe his catching of the big fish, "brought it in
himself" AD LIB.

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, ya should've come along with
	us, Miss Ratched, an' gotten a
	little sun on your cheeks and maybe
	caught a fish or two.

			BIG NURSE
	Mr. McMurphy, you had no right to
	take these men out with you!

			MCMURPHY
		(loudly)
	Yeah, that's kind of crazy, ain't
	it!

			BIG NURSE
	No, it was irresponsible!

Big Nurse turns to the others, leaving McMurphy dangling.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
		(respectfully)
	That's quite a catch, Jim. Whaat
	are you going to do with it?

			MARTINI
		(crossing to McMurphy)
	Gimme a cigarette!

			SEFELT
	I thought I might donate it to the
	mess hall.

			MCMURPHY
		(reaches in his pocket; he
		has none)
	I don't have any.

AD LIBS: "They could use it." "Take a picture first."

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	That's an excellent idea. Now, why
	don't you boys place your fish on
	the gurney and we'll see to it that
	everyone enjoys a fresh fish
	dinner.

The men toss their fish on the gurney as Martini joins the
group and starts hitting the others up for a cigarette. All
he gets for his troubles are a series of "No," "Get lost," "I
don't have any."

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Thank you, boys. Now if you'll just
	go along with Mister Washington to
	the showers, supper is in half an
	hour.

The inmates start AD LIBBING and laughing, "We're not
hungry," as Martini sees Harding light up a cigarette and
crosses to him.

			MARTINI
		(to Harding)
	Gimme a cigarette!

			HARDING
	No!

			MARTINI
	Why not?

			HARDING
	I'm not running a charity ward...

Martini snaps the cigarette out of Harding's hand, and takes
off with Harding chasing him.

Martini dashes around the room, pulling chairs in Harding's
way, taking a drag on the cigarette whenever he can.

Harding corners Martini, but Martini tosses the cigarette
over Harding's head to Scanlon.

Scanlon takes off with Harding after him, absolutely livid.

Scanlon passes to Billy who passes to Martini. Everyone in
the room is getting wired.

Martini throws it away as Harding jumps him and nails him to
the floor.

			MARTINI
		(holding his hands up;
		empty)
	All gone! All gone! Don't hit!
	Don't hit!

Harding starts pounding Martini's head on the floor when
Billy and Scanlon jump Harding and start pounding him.

Fredrickson picks up the cigarette and stands there watching
the fight as he smokes the cigarette as Washington, Warren
and Miller move in and start separating the men.

McMurphy, watching the fight, sighs, then deliberately
crosses toward the Nurses' Station.

INT. NURSES' STATION - MISS PILBOW'S POV - DAY

as McMurphy reaches the Nurses' Station and puts his hand
through the plate glass window, his fist stopping inches from
Miss Pilbow's startled face. Miss Pilbow's scream is added to
the SOUND OF THE SHATTERED WINDOW.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

McMurphy reaches in and picks up his carton of cigarettes.

			MCMURPHY
	I'm sure sorry, ma'am. Gawd, but I
	am. That window glass was so clean
	I didn't even see it...

McMurphy turns and crosses back to the day room, opening the
carton of cigarettes as he goes.

			MCMURPHY
	You guys want cigarettes! Here's
	the goddamn cigarettes!

McMurphy starts tossing packages of cigarettes into the mass
of struggling bodies as Washington grabs McMurphy by the arm
and tries to wheel him away.

McMurphy shakes him off and throws a pack of cigarettes in
Washington's face.

Washington goes after McMurphy, grabs him, and drives him
against the wall, right next to Bromden, who watches as
McMurphy shoves Washington away, goes into a crouch and
starts circling Washington. Washington dances in and out,
chipping away at McMurphy's face until McMurphy drives his
fist square into Washington's white, starched chest, drawing
him against the wall.

McMurphy moves in for the kill.

			WASHINGTON
	Warren! Miller!

The Acutes have stopped fighting and are watching.

McMurphy tags Washington, then is grabbed from behind by
Warren, who pulls him back.

Washington moves in and goes to work on McMurphy, when
Bromden grabs Washington, from behind, in a bear hug.

Miller jumps on Bromden's back. Bromden, still holding
Washington, backs up into the wall, squashing Miller, who
screams out.

EXT. HALLWAY TO DISTURBANCE WARD - LATE AFTERNOON

as McMurphy, bruised from the fight, and Bromden, handcuffed
to a special belt, wait while an aide unlocks the first of a
double set of heavy security doors.

The first door is locked, leaving McMurphy, Bromden, and the
three aides crammed in the small space between the two doors
while another aide opens the second door and McMurphy and
Bromden step through, followed by the aides.

INT. DISTURBANCE WARD - LATE AFTERNOON

As the aide locks the door behind them, the other aides lead
Bromden and McMurphy toward a bench, where they unshackle
them.

			AIDE
		(pointing to a bench)
	Wait over there...

The three aides go down the hall, leaving McMurphy and
Bromden who sit and look at their new surroundings. There is
a man sitting next to them.

McMURPHY'S POV

The architecture is the same as the ward we left below, but
it is the atmosphere that is different. A heaviness pervades
all. Heavily sedated patients sit isolated from each other.
Others stand shifting from one foot to the other, while
others walk up and down the hallway, their locomotive powers
not unlike that of Parkinson's Disease (caused by too much
sedation).

Suddenly, one patient gets up, speaking very angrily,
shouting incoherently at no one; he crosses the hall and
enters a side room. An aide goes in after him. A long beat,
then the aide comes out with the patient and gently leads him
back to his seat, talking softly to the man.

Further down the hallway, a gurney is wheeled out of the east
room with a patient lying on it, out cold; he is wheeled
further down the hall to the men's dorms, where he is left to
sleep it off.

Two aides come out of the EST room and head in McMurphy's
direction, where one of the aides motions to the patient
sitting next to McMurpby.

			AIDE (CONT'D)
		(approaching him very
		gently)
	Come on, Joey... this isn't going
	to hurt you... good for you... make
	you feel better...

The patient clings to the bench, terrified, weeping.

The aides peel him off the bench and escort him down the hall
to the EST room.

ANOTHER ANGLE

As McMurphy watches the patient go, he takes out a package of
gum. Takes a stick for himself and gives Bromden one.
McMurphy turns back to his own thoughts.

			BROMDEN
	Thank you.

McMurphy looks up. A long beat.

			MCMURPHY
	Say it again.

			BROMDEN
	Thank you.

Another beat.

			MCMURPHY
	Say... God Bless America!

			BROMDEN
	God Bless America.

			MCMURPHY
		(slapping his thigh)
	Goddammit, you sly son-of-a-bitch!
	Does anybody else know?

			BROMDEN 
	No.

			MCMURPHY
	Shit! This is too much!
		(his mind going a mile a
		minute)
	Chief, I tell you we're gonna bust
	outta this place an' make it all
	the way to Canada before they know
	what bit 'em.

			BROMDEN 
	Ca-na-da...

			MCMURPHY
	Ya like that, Chief, huh?

			BROMDEN
	Yeah...

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, well, well, well. 'Bout time
	the rest of the world got a gander
	at Big Chief Bromden cuttin' down
	the boulevard, stopping just long
	enough for virgins... Oh, man, I
	tell you, I tell you, you'll have
	women trippin' you and beating you
	to the floor...

			BROMDEN
	Ca-na-da...

			MCMURPHY
	Shhh, Chief, don't talk. Never
	talk! Remember, this is just
	between you an' me. Do ya
	understand?

Bromden nods.

			NURSE ITSU (O.S.)
	Mister McMurphy.

McMurphy turns to see Nurse Itsu. The two aides are standing
behind her.

			MCMURPHY
		(recognizing a long-lost
		friend)
	Hey, how ya doin'?

			NURSE ITSU
	Fine, thank you.
		(offering pills)
	Here, please take these.

			MCMURPHY
	What are they?

			NURSE ITSU
	To help you relax... please...

McMurphy takes the pills and downs them. Bromden takes his
pills.

			NURSE ITSU (CONT'D)
	Please take off your shoes.

McMurphy takes off his shoes.

			NURSE ITSU (CONT'D)
	Please follow me.

			MCMURPHY
		(rising, thumbs up)
	You an' me, Chief.

McMurphy, flanked by the two aides, follows Nurse Itsu to the
EST room.

			MCMURPHY
		(to Itsu)
	You know, I never got your name.

			NURSE ITSU
		(stopping at the door)
	Miss Itsu.
		(indicating the room)
	In here, please.

			MCMURPHY
	You comin' in to hold my hand?

			NURSE ITSU
	No...

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah... Well, see ya around, Itsu.

Itsu smiles at McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah...

McMurphy gives Bromden one last wave and goes in.

Bromden watches the door close behind McMurphy.

INT. EST ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

There are four other aides in there, standing around an empty
gurney.

A DOCTOR is at the head of the gurney, a NURSE alongside of
him.

			MCMURPHY
		(as he enters)
	Hi...

McMurphy looks around at the six aides.

			MCMURPHY
	You boys can take a cigarette break
	now...

The Nurse smiles at him.

			DOCTOR
	That's all right, Mister McMurphy,
	just climb on the bed and lie
	down...

			MCMURPHY
	Whatever you say, Doc...

McMurphy climbs on the bed and lies down.

The Doctor moves around to the side of the bed and takes
McMurphy's pulse, while the Nurse dips her fingers into a jar
of salve.

			DOCTOR
		(to McMurphy)
	This won't hurt you at all...

			MCMURPHY
	Uh, uh...

The Nurse starts applying salve to McMurphy's temples.

			MCMURPHY
	What's that for?

			NURSE
	Conductant.

			MCMURPHY
		(smiling up at her)
	Surely, goodness and mercy will
	follow this, eh, honey?

			DOCTOR
		(holding a mouthpiece)
	Please, put this in your mouth...

McMurphy takes the bit in his teeth. The Doctor moves back to
the head of the gurney and places the thongs on McMurphy's
temples.

The Doctor nods to the six aides, who move in and gently
place their hands, in a very professional manner, on
McMurphy's knees, hips and shoulders. Once set, the Doctor
turns to his controls.

SHOT OF McMURPHY

as he looks around, not nearly as scared as he is mystified
by the whole process, when suddenly, without warning,
McMurphy is hit by the shock. His face is a contorted mask of
surprise and pain. His whole body caught in a sudden spasm. A
moment of rigidity, then McMurphy passes out and his body
relaxes. Another moment, then a series of violent body spasms
begin flowing down his body. Now the aides' function is very
clear, as they press down, holding McMurphy firmly to the
gurney, until the last spasm subsides.

					SLOW FADE OUT
					TO:

FADE IN:

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

A Group Meeting is in progress. Doctor Spivey is there.

			BIG NURSE
		(to Sefelt)
	It's been brought to my attention
	that you're giving Mister
	Fredrickson your medication, aren't
	you, Mister Sefelt?

			SEFELT
	It's the Dilantin that makes my
	gums soft!

			BIG NURSE
	Now, Jim, you must be honest with
	yourself.

At the end of the hall, the door opens and McMurphy and
Bromden enter the visitors' room, accompanied by Washington
and Warren. They cross to the security gate, open it and pass
into the hallway.

Washington and Warren disappear into a room, leaving McMurphy
and Bromden, who walk slowly towards the day room.

The Group Meeting continues over as Fredrickson raises his
hand.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Yes, Mister Fredrickson?

			FREDRICKSON
	I wanna know why the dorm has to be
	locked in the daytime and on
	weekends?

			TABER
	Yeah, why can't a fellow even have
	the weekends to himself?

			CHESWICK
		(standing up)
	Yeah, whadabout our cigarettes?

			BIG NURSE
	Sit down, Mister Cheswick, and wait
	your turn!

He sits.

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	If the dorms were left open, you
	would just return to bed after
	breakfast...

			FREDRICKSON
	So what? Is it a mortal sin? I
	mean, normal people get to sleep
	late on weekends...

			BIG NURSE
	With few exceptions, time spent in
	the company of others is
	therapeutic, while every minute
	spent brooding alone only increases
	separation.

			CHESWICK
		(jumping up as he sees
		McMurphy)
	Mack!

Everyone looks at McMurphy and Bromden.

Bromden is as he always was, as McMurphy slowly drags himself
into the day room. He looks like a zombie as he takes the
room in. Then, suddenly, he slaps his thigh.
	McMURPHY
	Hey, hey, you ding-a-lings, you
	creeps, you goons...

He enters the room doing a jig. The Acutes' faces light up.

			MCMURPHY
	I got ten thousand watts and hot to
	trot. First woman takes me on is
	gonna light up like a pinball
	machine an' pay off in silver
	dollars...

McMurphy does a full circle of the room, greeting the
Chronics. But it's an effort for him. His voice is slower,
his footwork slightly out of sync.

			BILLY
	H-h-how's it g-g-going, Mack?

			MCMURPHY
	Just fine, Billy boy, just fine.
	Full of piss an' vinegar! They
	checked my plugs and cleaned my
	points...

			BIG NURSE
	Mister McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
		(turning)
	Yes, ma'am?

			BIG NURSE
	Welcome back.

			MCMURPHY
	Thank you, ma'am.

			BIG NURSE
	I hope everything is settled.

			MCMURPHY
	Ma'am, I'm as gentle as a puppy
	dog. Why, I haven't licked the tar
	out of an aide for two weeks! Hi
	ya, Doc!

Spivey greets McMurphy.

			BIG NURSE 
	Good. Why don't you join us?

			MCMURPHY
	Why, thank you, ma'am...
		(he gets a seat and sits
		heavily)
	Whew. Man, I tell you, that place
	up there is somethin' else!
		(pulling it together)
	Well, ya boys been practicin' up
	for the big game?
		(no response)
	I figured as much...

			BILLY
	W-W-We h-heard y-you w-were n-never
	c-c-coming back!

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, well, let me tell ya
	somethin'... While I was up there
	gettin' in-lightened, I came up
	with one hellava plan...

A great sadness suddenly sweeps over McMurphy's face and he
breaks off.

			BILLY
	Wh-wh-what p-plan, M-Mack!

No response from McMurphy.

			HARDING
	What's your plan, Mack?

			MCMURPHY
		(coming out of it)
	Plan?... Oh, yeah, the plan...
	Yeah...

McMurphy gets up and crosses to the window, where he joins
Bromden who is looking out the window.

REACTION SHOT of the others as they look at McMurphy and each
other with quizzical looks.

INT. GYMNASIUM - DAY

On the court both teams are lined up taking photographs for
the local newspaper. The bulb pops a few times.

			PHOTOGRAPHER
		(wrapping it up)
	Thank you, boys.

The line breaks up. McMurphy crosses to Big Nurse, who sits
in the front row.

It's the big Saturday game between the Acutes and Aides, as
spectators enter the gymnasium already half-filled with male
and female patients, staff members and visitors.

Doctor Spivey stands nearby at the timers' table, basketball
in hand, whistle around his neck, talking to the timer.

			MCMURPHY
	Miss Ratched, would you please save
	a space for my aunt? She's comin'
	down from Portland.

			BIG NURSE
	Certainly, Mister McMurphy, with
	pleasure.

			MCMURPHY
	Thank you, ma'am...

O.S. the WHISTLE BLOWS.

			MCMURPHY
	Gotta go now, ma'am...

			BIG NURSE
	Yes. Good luck, Mister McMurphy.

			MCMURPHY
	Thank you, ma'am.

McMurphy crosses onto the court. Big Nurse watches him go.

BASKETBALL COURT

Doctor Spivey is at half-court, basketball in hand as the
players take up their positions: Washington faces McMurphy
for the jump at center. Harding and Billy are playing guard
with Warren and Miller on them. Martini and Scanlon are in
the forward position, with the two white Aides covering them.
The other Acutes sit on the bench as substitutes.

			MCMURPHY
		(to Washington)
	Hey, Sam, bet ya two bucks ya lose.

			WASHINGTON
	Shit, man, tha' ain't even worth
	considerin'.

			MCMURPHY
	How 'bout twenty?

			WASHINGTON
	Now you talkin'.

			MCMURPHY
	Bet!

			WASHINGTON
	Bet you ass...

			MCMURPHY
		(to Spivey)
	You're a witness, Doc!

			SPIVEY
	Me? I didn't hear a thing! Let's
	play ball!

Spivey checks the court, then blows the whistle as he tosses
the ball into the air.

Washington taps the ball to Warren, who passes to Miller, who
hands off to Washington, who goes up for a layup. Two points.
The Acutes haven't even moved from their spots. The
scoreboard reads: AIDES 2 PATIENTS 0.

			MCMURPHY
		(taking the ball out)
	Come on, wake up, you ding-a-lings.
	The game is on.

The Acutes snap to and McMurphy passes the ball into Harding,
who fiercely dribbles down court, McMurphy running alongside
him.

			MCMURPHY
	Pass the ball, Harding...
		(no pass)
	Don't hang onto it...
		(no response)
	Pass it, goddammit!

Harding dribbles into the corner and finds himself bottled in
by two Aides.

			MCMURPHY
	Harding, here, over here!

The ball is snagged from Harding's hands by an Aide, who
passes it down court to another Aide, who turns and makes
another basket.

Scoreboard: AIDES 4 PATIENTS 0

			MCMURPHY
		(to Harding)
	Ya deaf! I said pass the ball!

			HARDING
	What are you talking about???
	Everybody was covered!!! Everybody
	was covered!!!

			MCMURPHY
	I was open! Come on, let's play
	ball!

McMurphy and Harding turn to see Martini, down court, passing
the ball into Billy.

			WASHINGTON
		(slapping his hands)
	Gimme tha' ball!

Billy panics and hands the ball to Washington, who turns
around and makes another basket. Score: AIDES 6 PATIENTS 0.

McMurphy and Harding run down court, McMurphy taking the ball
away from Martini, who would like to bring it in.

			MCMURPHY
		(to Washington)
	What kind of crap is that???

			WASHINGTON (CONT'D)
	Jus' playin' the game, sucker...

Washington chuckles and trots on down court.

			MCMURPHY
		(to Martini)
	Get down there where ya belong,
	Martini. You, too, Scanlon.
		(tosses ball to Harding)
	You take it out, Harding!

Harding takes the ball and passes it in to McMurphy, who
turns and dribbles down court exactly like Harding did.

			HARDING
		(running alongside
		McMurphy)
	Pass the ball!
		(no response)
	Pass it!
		(no response)
	Pass it! Pass it! I'm open,
	McMurphy, pass the ball!

McMurphy stops dead in his tracks and flings the ball at
Harding. The ball bounces off Harding's head and goes out of
bounds. The WHISTLE BLOWS. Harding spins a few times.

			MCMURPHY (O.S.)
	Harding, get back here!

Harding turns to see the other team go by. They score another
basket. Score: AIDES 8 PATIENTS 0.

Billy takes the ball and passes into McMurphy, who turns to
see CANDY enter the gym, with her friend, ROSE.

			MCMURPHY
		(calling out)
	Candy. Candy, over here.
		(to Doctor Spivey)
	Hey, Doc, time out.

			SPIVEY
		(blowing his whistle)
	Time out!

McMurphy tosses the ball to Spivey, then crosses the court to
Candy and Rose, who have had a couple of drinks on the way
down.

			CANDY
	Mack, you sonofabitch, you ol'
	fucker, how've you been?

			MCMURPHY
		(swinging her around in
		his arms)
	Terrific, baby, terrific!
		(to Rose)
	Hi ya doin', Rose?

			ROSE
	Okay, Mack!
		(looking around)
	Whoowe, Candy girl, are we in an
	insane asylum or ain't we?

			MCMURPHY
		(to Candy)
	How's your ass been holdin' up,
	honey?

Candy pokes her ass at McMurphy. He gives it a squeeze. O.S.
a WHISTLE BLOWS.

			MCMURPHY
	Come on, girls, we're holding up
	the game!

McMurphy leads the two ladies across the court.

The entire gymnasium is riveted on the three of them. As they
reach Big Nurse:

			MCMURPHY
	Miss Ratched, this is my Aunt Candy
	and her friend Rose...

Greetings are exchanged.

			MCMURPHY
	Miss Ratched was kind enough to
	save you ladies a seat...

The two ladies wedge themselves in next to Big Nurse. O.S.
the WHISTLE BLOWS.

			MCMURPHY
	Talk to ya at half time!

McMurphy turns and crosses onto the court.

			CANDY
		(calling after him)
	Sock it to 'em, kid!

			ROSE
		(taking in the players)
	Are they all crazies?

			BIG NURSE
	No.

			ROSE
	Oh, just those guys dressed in
	white?

			BIG NURSE
	No, miss, it's the other way
	around.

			ROSE
	Well, you could've fooled me.

On the court, McMurphy throws the ball to Martini.

Martini throws the ball to McMurphy.

McMurphy throws the ball back to Martini.

Martini throws the ball into the stands.

The WHISTLE BLOWS O.S.

			MCMURPHY
	Whadaya doin', there's no one
	there!

			MARTINI
	I saw 'em! I saw 'em.

			HARDING (O.S.)
		(shouting)
	Mack, get back here!

McMurphy turns to see the other team go by and score a
basket.

Billy passes the ball into MeMurphy.

			MARTINI
	Gimme the ball!

			MCMURPHY
		(holding the ball)
	Okay, Martini. That's okay. Now you
	watch me.

McMurphy dribbles the ball down the sideline. Stops.

Goes into his routine of ball tricks: faking one way, then
the other, over his head, under his legs, finally ending on a
pass behind his back which goes straight into Washington's
hands. Washington dribbles down court for an easy layup.

Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 0

			MCMURPHY
		(to Spivey)
	Time out!

			SPIVEY
		(blowing his whistle)
	Time out!

			MCMURPHY
		(shouting to Timer)
	Replacement coming in! Harding out!

McMurphy crosses to Bromden, takes his hand, and leads him
onto the court and under the Acutes' basket, where he
maneuvers him into the proper position. Then McMurphy raises
his hands above his head and Bromden follows suit.

			MCMURPHY
		(starting back up court)
	Time in!
		(sees Harding still on
		court)
	Hold it! Time out!
		(to Harding)
	I said Harding out!

			HARDING
	I refuse!

			MCMURPHY
	I said out!

			HARDING
		(casting a quick look at
		his wife)
	No!

			MCMURPHY
	I'm the coach!

			HARDING
	I just started!

			MCMURPHY
	You can come back later!

			HARDING
	I don't trust you!

			MCMURPHY
	(looking for another victim)
	Scanlon out!

			SCANLON
	No!

			MCMURPHY
	Martini out!

			MARTINI
	No!

McMurphy looks at Billy.

			BILLY
	I-I-I-I-I'll g-g-g-go, M-M-Mack...

			MCMURPHY
	Good boy, thank you, Billy.

Billy goes off and sits by Big Nurse. Now, the lineup on the
bench is Billy, Big Nurse, Candy and Rose.

Spivey blows the whistle.

Under the Aides' basket, Harding passes the ball into
McMurphy, who dribbles to half court, takes his mark, and
lobs the ball over the outstretched arms of the Aides right
into Bromden's waiting hands. Bromden turns and slams the
ball into the basket.

The crowd goes bananas. Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 2

Bromden walks in majestic dignity the full length of the
court and takes up his position under the Aides' basket,
while McMurphy and his teammates have been putting tremendous
pressure on the Aides, not allowing them to pass the ball in.

As soon as McMurphy sees that Bromden is firmly set, hands
held up, under the Aides' basket, McMurphy turns and runs
down court, followed by the other Acutes, where they take up
their defensive position.

Washington and the Aides easily bring the ball down court,
work themselves into position, and take a shot at the basket,
which Bromden swats aside.

Each Aide gets a shot at the basket, and each time Bromden
swats it aside; sending the last swat into McMurphy's waiting
hands.

McMurphy dribbles the ball up court, where he runs into heavy
pressure from Washington.

			HARDING
		(off to the side of
		McMurphy)
	McMurphy, pass the ball!

McMurphy passes the ball to Harding and cuts toward the
basket.

			MCMURPHY
		(as he cuts past Harding)
	Harding, pass the ball!

Harding ignores McMurphy, as he runs by, and throws the ball
to Bromden, who turns and slams the ball into the basket.

The crowd goes bananas.

Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 4

			CANDY
		(at the top of her lungs)
	Atta boy, Mack!
		(to Big Nurse)
	What's he in for?

			BIG NURSE
	Who?

			CANDY
	Mack!

			BIG NURSE
	Miss, it's a complicated case. It
	would take too long to explain.

			CANDY
	Yeah, well, he looks like hell!

CHEERS are HEARD O.S. Candy turns back to the game.

CAMERA HOLDS on Candy, Big Nurse and Billy, who is staring at
Candy.

			BIG NURSE
		(to Billy)
	Billy, it's not polite to stare!

Billy sinks back, thinks it over, then presses forward.

			BILLY
		(to Candy)
	Miss!

Candy looks at Billy.

			BILLY (CONT'D)
	Hi!

			CANDY
		(giving him a big smile)
	Hi...

Billy sinks back in his seat.

On the court, McMurphy dribbles down to half court where he
is stopped by Washington and Warren, who put the squeeze on
him. McMurphy turns and gives them his ass to contend with,
then manages to throw the ball under his legs and
Washington's legs. The ball rolls to Martini, who scoops it
up and throwing it wildly away, the ball ricochets off the
backboard and goes in for two points.

The crowd goes bananas. Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 6

Bromden starts striding down court when the Aides make a fast
break past him, but miss their shot.

McMurphy retrieves the ball as Bromden, not more than several
feet from his own basket, does an about-face and returns to
his basket where he turns to see McMurphy lob the ball full
court to Bromden, who catches the ball on one bounce, turns
and slams the ball in for another basket.

Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 8

The crowd goes bananas and Bromden turns and starts striding
down the court when he sees McMurphy at the far end of the
court yelling at him.

			MCMURPHY
		(yelling and gesturing)
	Run, Chief, run!

Bromden gets the idea and starts loping down court abreast of
Washington, who is making another fast break towards his own
basket.

Washington and Bromden go up together and Bromden swats the
ball to Scanlon.

			MCMURPHY
		(yelling and gesturing)
	Run, Chief, run!

Bromden starts running towards his own basket, Washington hot
on his heels, when the ball is passed to him and he goes up,
makes the point, but takes a bad spill, crashing head over
heels to the floor.

The crowd gasps. The WHISTLE BLOWS.

			SPIVEY
		(shouting)
	Foul!

As McMurphy charges across court and grabs Washington by his
shirt...

			MCMURPHY
		(breathing in Washington's
		face)
	Ya fuckin' coon, you're not on the
	ward now!

			WASHINGTON
		(cool as a cucumber)
	Take you han's offa me!

Spivey comes running, blowing his whistle.

			SPIVEY
	Break it up, boys!
		(to Timer)
	Point counts. One free throw!

McMurphy pushes Washington away and turns to Bromden, who is
being helped off the floor by Harding, as...

			MARTINI AND SCANLON
	Great shot, Chief! Ya okay? You're
	doin' great!

They lead Bromden to the foul line.

			MCMURPHY
		(to Washington as they
		line up at the foul line)
	We got your black ass now,
	Washington, wanna bet another
	twenty?

			WASHINGTON
	No way...

Bromden takes the ball at the foul line. Sets himself up and
lobs the ball underhand. It goes in.

The crowd goes wild.

INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT

The patients are asleep except for Bromden who sits on the
edge of his bed watching McMurphy, his face pressed against
the window, looking out.

			TURKLE
		(approaching)
	What you boys doin' up at this
	ungodly time o' the night?

			MCMURPHY
	Prayin', brother. Prayin'.

			TURKLE 
	Well, you boys finish it up an'
	climb back into your beds. 'Kay?

			MCMURPHY
	'Kay...

The men slide into their beds and Turkle goes off, clucking
to himself.

A beat, then McMurphy rushes back to the window and looks
out.

McMURPHY'S POV

Outside, in the dark, Candy and Rose are seen wandering
around.

REVERSE ANGLE - BROMDEN AND McMURPHY

			MCMURPHY
	There they are, Chief!

McMurphy tries to get the girl's attention and fails.

			MCMURPHY
	Where are they goin'?

McMurphy takes off, towards the day room, followed by
Bromden.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

As the two of them cross into the day room heading for the
window, Turkle sticks his head out of the nurses' station.

			TURKLE
	I thought I told you boys to go to
	bed!

			MCMURPHY
		(flagging the girls)
	Our prayers have been answered,
	Turkle! Our prayers have been
	answered!

McMURPHY'S POV

as we SEE the girls coming.

REVERSE ANGLE

			TURKLE
	Oh yeah...

			MCMURPHY
	I tell ya, there's an angel of
	mercy standing out there, Turkle.

			TURKLE
	Hallelujah, brother, now get back
	in bed!

			MCMURPHY
	Come an' see.

Turkle comes out of the nurses' station, leaving the side
window open.

			TURKLE
		(crossing to McMurphy)
	That angel of mercy, he ain't a
	she, is he?

			MCMURPHY
	You's better believe it, brother!

Turkle reaches the window and sees the girls outside.

CANDY and ROSE'S POV - THE MEN looking out.

BACK TO SCENE

as Turkle turns to McMurphy.

			TURKLE 
	Ah believe ya, brother. Ah believe
	ya!

			MCMURPHY
		(taking Turkle aside;
		holds up $20 bill)
	Now, wouldn't you pray for twenty
	bucks, a bottle booze an' a piece
	of that angel cake?

			TURKLE
		(taking the $20 and
		reaching for his keys)
	Ah'm on my knees, brother, ah'm on
	my knees.

Turkle unlocks the security screen and raises the window.

McMurphy sticks his head out the window.

			CANDY AND ROSE
		(both slightly tipsy)
	Hiya, Mack.

			MCMURPHY
	Hiya, girls...

			TURKLE
	Shhh...

Candy passes a heavy bag of bottles in. Then McMurphy and
Turkle help her in. Her dress is above her thighs, her ass
visible as she swings over the windowsill and into McMurphy's
arms.

			CANDY
	Whew! Made it!

			MCMURPHY
		(embracing Candy)
	Man, you look good 'nough to eat!

			CANDY
	Yeah, well you look like hell
	warmed over...

			ROSE (O.S.)
	Hey, pssst! Whadda 'bout me?

Turkle turns to help Rose in, but she's not as easy to
handle, being a good deal heavier and twice as plastered as
Candy.

			TURKLE
	Hey, Mac! Gimme a hand, will ya!

McMurphy disengages himself from Candy and lends Turkle a
hand. Rose is finally hauled into the room.

			ROSE
		(giggling; loud)
	Whew! Hiya, boys!

			TURKLE
	Shhh... let's move it away from the
	window...

The group shifts a few feet as Turkle closes the window and
locks the screen. McMurphy turns back to Candy.

			MCMURPHY
		(arms open)
	Come here, sugar...

Candy moves into McMurphy's arms as Rose, straightening her
dress, turns to see Bromden looming. Rose SCREAMS.

			TURKLE
	What happened?

			ROSE
		(backing into Turkle)
	What's that?

			TURKLE
		(mystified)
	What?

			ROSE
		(pointing at Bromden)
	That!

			TURKLE
	Oh, that. That ain't nothin' to be
	afraid of, ma'am. Just ol Chief
	Bromden. That's all...

			ROSE
	Is he one of the loonies?

			MCMURPHY
	He's a patient, Rose...

			ROSE 
	Oh, yeah...

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah...

			ROSE 
		(approaching Bromden
		tentatively)
	Hi ya, big boy? How's it goin'?
	Like it in here?

			MCMURPHY
	He can't hear you, Rose. He's just
	a big deaf an' dumb indian...

			CANDY
	Pssst! Hey Rose! There they are!

			ROSE
		(looking around)
	What? Where?

CANDY points to the patients sleeping in the men's dorm.

			CANDY
	In there.

			ROSE
	Wow! They're so quiet.

			TURKLE
	They're sleeping, Miss. They're
	sleeping. An' we gotta keep it down
	so we don't disturb their sleep.

			ROSE
	Are they dangerous when they're
	awake?

			TURKLE
	Oh, no, Miss. Not these loonies.
	These are nice guys. Nice guys.

			CANDY
	What's that smell?

			TURKLE
	What smell?

			CANDY
	Smells weird. Smells like
	pneumonia.

			TURKLE
	Ammonia, Miss...

			ROSE
	Smells like piss. Is this real,
	Candy? Is this really real? I mean
	we are in an insane asylum, an' I
	wanna know how we got ourselves
	into this scene.

			TURKLE
	Shhh, please, Miss. Keep it down...

Rose turns to McMurphy who has opened a bottle of booze and
is taking a long pull.

			ROSE
		(to McMurphy)
	Who is he?

			MCMURPHY
		(passing the bottle to
		Turkle)
	He's in charge.

			ROSE 
	Are you a doctor?

			TURKLE
		(passing the bottle to
		Rose)
	Not exactly, Miss. Not exactly.

			ROSE
		(drinking and passing the
		bottle to Candy)
	Yeah, well, I'll tell ya somethin'.
	I'll tell ya somethin'. I had this
	boyfriend, Chuck.
		(to McMurphy)
	Ya know him, Mac. Ya remember,
	Chuck.

			MCMURPHY
	Sure, I know Chuck. I know him.

			ROSE
	Well, listen to this. He got mad at
	me one day. Boy, did he get mad at
	me. He took the light bulb, ya
	know. I thought he was going to
	cram it right up me, ya know. But
	he ate it. He ate the whole fucking
	light bulb.
		(to Turkle)
	Now, tell me! Is he crazy? Tell me!
	Is he crazy?

			TURKLE
	Well, Miss... I would say... I
	would say, yes. Yes, he's crazy.

			ROSE
	I thought so.

			TURKLE
	Is he in an asylum?

			ROSE
	He's dead.

			TURKLE
	Oh, I see. He was a very sick man.
	Very sick.

			ROSE
	That's what I told his mother. And
	she said I was crazy. Her son ate
	the whole fucking light bulb and
	she said I was crazy.

			TURKLE
	I don't know anything about that,
	Miss. I would have to examine you
	first...

			ROSE
	You ol' fucker!

			TURKLE
	Well, I'm running a risk by letting
	you in, Miss. You know I'm runnin'
	a risk of gettin' my black ass
	fired. If you understand what I
	mean...

			MCMURPHY
	Sure, she understands what you
	mean. She's not dumb. Why do you
	think Rose came to visit us? Rose
	is very interested in hospitals and
	hospital facilities. Aren't you,
	Rose?

			ROSE
	What?

			TURKLE
	I'll be very glad to show you
	around, Miss...

			MCMURPHY
	Yeah, that's a good idea, Turkle.
	Why don't ya take Rose on a little
	tour of our facilities...

			ROSE
	Wait a minute...

			CANDY
	It's okay, Rose. You can go with
	him.

			ROSE
	Oh yeah! Well if ya don't mind,
	I'll decide on my own date!

			CANDY
	Shit, Rose! What's there to decide?
	There's only four of us.

			ROSE
	Whaddaya talkin' about? There's at
	least twenty guys in there. Let's
	wake 'em up and get this party on
	the road.

			TURKLE
	Now, Miss. What do you want with
	twenty zombies when you got a
	twenty gun salute looking you right
	in the face.

			ROSE
	Oh, yeah...

			TURKLE
	You better believe it, you sweet
	little thing. You better believe
	it...

			ROSE
	Don't you sweet talk me you ol'
	spook, you!

			TURKLE
	Oh, I'm all through talkin'. Now,
	let's just you an' me trip on down
	that hall.

			CANDY
	Go with him, Rose. Go with him.

			ROSE
	Well, okay, but I just want to look
	at the facilities. That's all.

			TURKLE
	That's all I'm going to show you.

McMURPHY'S POV - TURKLE AND ROSE

as the two of them cross out of the day room toward the
hallway, Turkle suddenly turns and hurries back to McMurphy,
takes the bottle of booze and hurries off clucking to
himself.

BACK TO McMURPHY and CANDY.

			MCMURPHY
	'Kay, lets get under way.

McMurphy crosses to package of booze, selects another bottle,
unscrews the top and takes a long pull, then hands the bottle
to Bromden.

			MCMURPHY
	Down the ol' hatch, Chief.

Bromden takes a long pull on the bottle, gags and passes the
bottle to McMurphy who crosses to the nurses' station and
peeks around the corner.

McMURPHY

as he peeks around the corner.

McMURPHY'S POV - TURKLE AND ROSE

far down the hallway, as Turkle shows Rose one room, then
another, and then the seclusion room, into which Turkle
playfully lures Rose, who playfully resists, but finally
enters. A beat passes and they don't come out.

BACK TO McMURPHY

Satisfied, he crosses to the nurses' station, reaches in the
open side-door window, opens the door and enters.

INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT

as McMurphy enters the nurses' station and looks around.

INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT

The patients are all asleep. A very long beat, then --

			MCMURPHY (V.O.)
		(through loudspeaker; very
		low, ominous, drawn out)
	Who knows what evil lurks in the
	hearts of men...

Ominous LAUGHTER, then the lights go flashing on and off.

			MCMURPHY (V.O)
		(through loudspeaker)
	Medication time! Medication time!
	Rise and shine! Rise and shine!
	Time to say goodbye... Everybody
	up, up, up!

Some of the patients immediately pop awake as Candy comes in
and starts hustling the patients out of bed.

			CANDY
	Up and at 'em, boys.

			BILLY
		(waking up)
	H-H-Hi, Candy...

			CANDY
	Hi, Billy.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

MUSIC OVER as the patients are queued up at the nurses'
station where Candy is handing out cups full of whiskey,
McMurphy backing her up, pouring the booze into the cups.
Harding takes his cup and moves back into the day room as
Ellis automatically downs the booze, gags and goes spinning
off across the hallway and is nailed to the wall.

					QUICK CUT TO:

DOWN THE HALL - TURKLE

sticks his head out the door to check the scene out. Sees
what's happening and comes rushing down the hallway, without
his shirt, and zipping up his pants.

INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT

as Turkle shoves his way to the intercom system and switches
off the lights and music.

			TURKLE
		(furiously pushing them
		out)
	You crazy goons... shut up an' get
	outta here... Out! Out! Out!

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Silence as the last man is driven out of the nurses' station.

Down the hallway, a light goes on in the visitors' room.

			TURKLE
	Shit, it's the soo-per-visor come
	to fire my black ass.

A KEY is HEARD hitting the lock at the end of the hallway.
Without losing a beat, Turkle reverses his movement and
starts pushing everybody back into the nurses' station.

			TURKLE (CONT'D)
		(pushing)
	Get back in there! In! In! In!

As Turkle pushes the last man into the nurses' station, he
sees Rose stick her head out of the seclusion room.

			TURKLE (CONT'D)
		(motioning and shouting)
	Stay in there! Stay in there!

Rose ducks back into the seclusion room as, simultaneously,
Turkle closes the door behind him to the nurses' station as
the door to the ward opens and the NIGHT SUPERVISOR, a middle
aged woman, enters the ward.

INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT

as Turkle, shushing the crowd, makes his way to the nurses'
lounge and opens the door.

			TURKLE
		(harsh whisper)
	Alla ya goons, get in here!

The patients pile into the nurses' lounge, Turkle cramming
the last one through the door and closing it. He turns and
crosses to the side door and steps out.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

as Turkle steps out of the nurses' station, closing the door
behind him.

			NIGHT SUPERVISOR
	Oh, there you are, Mister Turkle.

			TURKLE
	Evenin', ma'am.

			NIGHT SUPERVISOR
	Is everything all right?

			TURKLE
		(blocking her way to the
		day room)
	Why, sure, ma'am...

			NIGHT SUPERVISOR
	The lights were flashing on and
	off, Mister Turkle.

			TURKLE
	Jus' cleanin' up, ma'am.

			NIGHT SUPERVISOR
	At this hour?

			TURKLE
	Cleanliness is a twenty-four-hour
	job, ma'am...

Harding passes by and enters the latrine.

			NIGHT SUPERVISOR
	What are these men doing up
	wandering around?

			TURKLE
		(leaning in)
	Ah guess the natives are restless,
	ma'am...

			NIGHT SUPERVISOR
		(getting a whiff of his
		breath)
	You've been drinking on the job
	again, haven't you, Mister Turkle!

			TURKLE
	Ah, no, ma'am... well, yes,
	ma'am...
		(leaning in close)
	A man get awful lonely at night, if
	ya know what Ah mean, ma'am...

Down the hall, Rose sticks her head out the door, sees what's
happening, and ducks back in as the Night Supervisor turns on
her heel and starts back down the hallway, Turkle at her
heels.

			NIGHT SUPERVISOR
	I want those men put back to bed,
	Mister Turkle!

			TURKLE
	Yes, ma'am...

			NIGHT SUPERVISOR
	And you haven't heard the last of
	this!

			TURKLE
	Yes, ma'am...

She opens the gate, slams it behind her, crosses to the main
door, opers it and exits to:

			TURKLE (CONT'D)
		(calling after her)
	Night, night.

Turkle turns and the smile leaves his face as he hurries down
the hallway.

O.S. the TOILET FLUSHES as Turkle stops at the seclusion room
and sticks his head in.

			TURKLE (CONT'D)
	Be right back, honey...

Turkle closes the door, crosses down to the nurses' station,
and enters as Harding comes out of the latrine.

INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT

as Turkle enters, crosses to the nurses' lounge and opens the
door to see the patients, silhouetted against the open
refrigerator light, moving around, pulling the room apart. It
smacks of Dante's Inferno as Turkle snaps on the light and
steps into the room.

INT. NURSES' LOUNGE - NIGHT

as Turkle steps into the room and sees the extent of the
plundering. The filing cabinet is open. So is the medicine
cabinet. Rolls of medical gauze are strewn around, cough
syrup and orange juice are flowing.

The patients start piling out of the room, carrying their
plunder.

Fredrickson and Sefelt are SEEN sitting on the floor, in
front of the open refrigerator, looking through their
dossiers.

			FREDRICKSON
	Christ, they even got my first
	grade report card here...

			SEFELT
	Lemme see...

Sefelt leans in, unintentionally tipping a bottle of cough
syrup in his hand which goes "glug, glug, glug..." all over
the papers.

			SEFELT (CONT'D)
	Jesus, they're terrible grades,
	Fred...

Turkle stoically takes in the shattered remains of his job,
unscrews the top to his bottle of whiskey, and takes the
biggest swig of his life as, O.S., Rose is HEARD SCREAMING.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

as Rose, naked as the day she was born, runs screaming down
the hall, Ellis loping after her, reaching out his hand.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

as the others, who are laying out food, drinking booze and
stringing up hospital gauze, turn to see Rose enter the room.
She runs behind McMurphy, pressing her body to his, as he
gently takes hold of Ellis' outstretched hands.

			MCMURPHY
		(to Rose)
	Don't scream, honey...

He gently guides Ellis to the wall, with Rose still clinging
to his back.

			MCMURPHY
	Ellis ain't gonna hurt you... Ellis
	is nice... Nice Ellis... see the
	nice lady...

He pins Ellis to the wall.

			MCMURPHY
	There, see, nice lady touch
	Ellis...

Rose reaches out and touches Ellis.

The others stand agog, looking at this Holy Trinity.

					DISSOLVE TO:

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

A SOFT NOSTALGIC NUMBER is HEARD OVER LOUDSPEAKER as Harding,
Billy and Cheswick watch McMurphy dance with Candy,
Fredrickson with Sefelt and Rose, who is dressed, dance with
Taber.

Martini and Scanlon are busy draping hospital gauze around
the room.

Bromden sits by the window -- waiting.

					DISSOLVE TO:

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

Another SOFT NOSTALGIC NUMBER is HEARD OVER LOUDSPEAKER as
McMurphy, Candy, Harding, Cheswick, Taber, Sefelt and
Fredrickson watch Rose, on a table, doing a solo bump-and
grind dance, while Martini and Scanlon race around the room
in wheelchairs.

Billy sits, watching Candy and McMurphy, who sit across the
room.

Candy is tired and bored.

McMurphy is drunk and starting to fade.

			CANDY
	It's time to hit the road, Mack...

			MCMURPHY
		(snapping at her)
	Don't worry 'bout the road! We'll
	hit the road! It'll be there when
	we're ready!
		(to the room)
	Ain't that right, fellas?

He gets up and crosses to his friends.

			MCMURPHY
	I jus' want you guys to have a good
	time... Are ya havin' a good time?
	You... you... good... good... Lez
	have some fun...

He turns to see Billy, who isn't having fun.

			MCMURPHY
	Whatsa matter with ya...

Billy turns away and McMurphy crosses to him.

			MCMURPHY
	Ain'tcha havin' a good time...
		(no response)
	Whadaya want? Ya wanna drink? A
	cigarette...

Billy looks up at McMurphy, his eyes are flooded with tears.

			MCMURPHY
	Whatsamatter, kid, what's botherin'
	you...?

			BILLY
	Ah-ah-ah-are y-y-y-you g-g-g-going
	t-t-t-to muh-muh-muh-marry her?

			MCMURPHY
	Marry who?

			BILLY 
	C-C-C-C-Candy!

			MCMURPHY
	Candy? Hell no, Billy, she's just a
	good friend, that's all...

			BILLY
	Wu-wu-wu I-I-I-I th-th-think sh-sh
	sh-she's th-th-th-the ma-ma-ma-most
	bu-bu-bu-beautiful wu-wu-wu-woman
	in th-th-the whole world!

A long beat as McMurphy looks at Billy, then Candy, then
Billy.

			MCMURPHY
		(softly)
	Why don't ya go tell 'er...

Billy doesn't move.

			MCMURPHY
	Go on, son, now's your chance...

Billy slowly crosses toward Candy, stopping halfway to look
back at McMurphy, who gives him an affirmative gesture. He
crosses to Candy, who just looks at him.

			BILLY
	C-C-Candy, wu-wu-will y-y-you mu-mu
	marry me!

			CANDY
	Ah, Billy...

Candy rises, kisses Billy on the cheek, and dances with him.

McMurphy beams on the twosome, unscrews his whiskey bottle,
takes a long pull on the juice, and looks at Bromden.

Bromden sits by the window waiting.

					DISSOLVE TO:

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

as the MUSIC ENDS. A long silence, then another NUMBER begins
as McMurphy, who has nodded off, starts awake and looks
around.

McMURPHY'S POV

Bromden sits by the window waiting.

Cheswick is asleep on the table.

Martini and Scanlon are sitting in their wheelchairs filling
their cups from through the enema tube.

Harding sits, maintaining his aloofness, smoking a cigarette.

Sefelt is sitting on the floor, in a drunken stupor, while
Fredrickson dances around him.

Candy and Billy stand, locked in each other's arms, swaying
to the MUSIC.

McMURPHY

struggles to his feet, steadies himself, crosses to the
nurses' station.

INT. NURSES' LOUNGE - NIGHT

as McMurphy enters and goes to Turkle, who is dead asleep.
McMurphy lifts Turkle's keys and leaves.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

as McMurphy crosses to Billy and Candy, and gently parting
them, he puts his arms around them -- as much for support as
affection.

			MCMURPHY
	Come on, you lovers, it's gettin'
	late...

They move toward the hallway.

Bromden and Harding are the only two who watch them go.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

as McMurphy passes several doors, reaches the door of his
choice, fumbles with the keys, finds the right one, and opens
the door to the seclusion room.

			MCMURPHY
		(standing aside)
	In ya go...

			BILLY
		(holding back)
	M-M-M-Mack?

			MCMURPHY
	It's okay, kid. Everything it going
	to be okay... I'll come back an'
	getcha in a while... 'Kay...

Candy and Billy, hand in hand, enter the small room, which
has a bed in it.

McMurphy closes the door, looks at the keys, and pockets
them. CAMERA TRACKS with McMurphy, who is a very weary man,
back into the day room.

INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT

MUSIC OVER LOUDSPEAKER as McMurphy crashes heavily into his
chair. He can hardly keep his eyes open as he looks around.

Harding sits nearby.

Taber is lying on a couch, his head in Rose's lap.

Cheswick is asleep on the table.

Ellis stands nailed to the wall.

Bromden sits by the window -- waiting. CAMERA HOLDS on
Bromden.

			MCMURPHY (V.O.)
	Hey, Harding, wake me in an hour.

			HARDING (V.O.)
	Sure, Mack...

CAMERA PUSHES INTO WINDOW. TIME LAPSE SHOT of the DAWN and
SUN RISING.

			WASHINGTON (V.O.)
		(very far away; getting
		closer)
	Bibbit? Where's Bill Bibbit, ya
	damn goons?

INT. DAY ROOM - EARLY MORNING

as Washington jostles McMurphy awake.

			WASHINGTON
	Come on, get over there!

McMurphy allows himself to be led to the heavy security
partition, by the men's dorm, where all the patients are
lined up.

It is morning and the day room is a mess:

A few chairs turned over. Paper cups and empty bottles.
Puddles of cough syrup, orange juice and apple juice worked
into sticky masses.

Rose sits by herself on the couch.

Bromden is the last one led to the lineup, where Big Nurse
waits.

			BIG NURSE
	Thank you, Mister Washington!
	Mister McMurphy, do you know where
	Billy is?

McMurphy shrugs "no."

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Mister Harding, have you seen
	Billy?

Harding shrugs "no."

			BIG NURSE (CONT'D)
	Mister Sefelt...

Big Nurse's question is cut off as all the patients and
attendants turn their heads toward the hallway and start
laughing. Big Nurse turns to see Turkle, without his shirt
on, walk into the seclusion room and close the door behind
him.

Big Nurse turns and starts down the hallway, the laughter
trailing after her when, suddenly, the laughter breaks off as
Big Nurse stops and in the silence, she opens the door.

INT. SECLUSION ROOM - EARLY MORNING

as Big Nurse opens the door to see Candy snuggled up to
Billy, who lies there, eyes closed, a smile on his face.

			TURKLE
		(buttoning up his shirt)
	Morning, Miss Ratched...

He slides out of the room as Billy opens his eyes. A long
beat as they look at each other.

			BILLY
	M-M-M-M-M-M-

Big Nurse shakes her head and exits, closing the door behind
her.

INT. HALLWAY - MORNING

as Big Nurse heads for the day room, walking straight for
McMurphy when:

			BILLY (O.S.)
		(shouting)
	M-M-M-Miss Ratched!

Big Nurse stops and turns to see Billy, half naked, pulling
his pajama pants up as he runs, stumbling toward Big Nurse.

			BILLY (CONT'D)
		(crying out as he runs)
	P-p-p-please du-du-don't t-t-t-tell
	m-m-my muh-muh-muh-mummy!

He trips on his pajamas and falls sprawling at Big Nurse's
feet, his bare ass exposed to all.

			BILLY (CONT'D)
		(blubbering as he rises)
	P-p-p-please du-du-du-don't t-t
	tell her, p-p-please...

			BIG NURSE
	You should have thought about that
	before you brought that woman in
	here!

			BILLY
	N-n-n-n-no, no, I du-du-du-didn't,
	I didn't!

			BIG NURSE
	I don't want your mother to believe
	something like this but what am I
	to think?

			BILLY
	Sh-sh-sh-she m-m-made m-m-me do it!

			BIG NURSE
	Billy, that girl couldn't have
	pulled you in there forcibly...

			BILLY
	Sh-sh-she did! Everybody did!

			BIG NURSE
	Who? Tell me!

			BILLY
	M-M-Muh-Muh-McMurphy!

			MCMURPHY
	Ahhh, Billy...

			BILLY 
		(caught in his own
		anxiety)
	P-p-p-please duh-duh-duh-duh t-t
	tell, M-M-M-Miss R-R-Ratched, y-y
	you don't need to!

			BIG NURSE
	Get up, Billy.

			BILLY
		(screaming)
	No! No! No!

Billy pitches forward and collapses on the floor, screaming,
pounding his fists and feet against the floor.

			BILLY (CONT'D)
	N-n-n-n-duh-duh-duh-pl-pl-pl-pl-muh
	muh-muh...

			BIG NURSE
		(ignoring McMurphy)
	Mister Washington.

			MCMURPHY
		(helplessly to Billy)
	Hey, Billy, stop cryin'. You don't
	have to cry... You ain't got
	nothin' to be ashamed of. She ain't
	gonna tell you mother... stop
	crying...

			WASHINGTON
	Yes, Miss Ratched!

			BIG NURSE
		(to Washington)
	Put him in Doctor Spivey's office!

			WASHINGTON
	Yes, Miss Ratched...

Washington nods to Warren and the two of them scoop Billy off
the floor and carry him screaming to Doctor Spivey's office
as Big Nurse crosses into the nurses' station and picks up
the phone as Candy eases her way into the day room and joins
McMurphy.

A beat, then Miller starts herding the patients toward the
washroom, staying clear of McMurphy and Bromden, who don't
move.

McMurphy pulls the keys out of his pocket.

			MCMURPHY
		(to Candy)
	Let's go!

McMurphy checks the nurses' station, sees Big Nurse is busy
on the telephone.

			MCMURPHY
		(to Bromden)
	Let's go, Chief...

McMurphy crosses to the window, followed by Bromden, Candy
and Rose, where he begins fumbling with the lock.

MILLER

as he herds the patients out of the day room. He turns to see
McMurphy trying to open the screen. Miller crosses to
McMurphy.

			MILLER
	Hey, what's gone here?

McMurphy turns around and punches Miller.

INT. NURSES' STATION - MORNING

as Big Nurse, still on the phone, sees Miller go sprawling
across the floor. She grabs the intercom.

			BIG NURSE (V.O.)
		(through loudspeaker)
	Washington! Warren! To the day
	room, immediately!

INT. DAY ROOM - MORNING

McMurphy opens the screen, raises the window, and helps Candy
and Rose out as Washington and Warren converge on them.
McMurphy and Bromden wheel around.

Washington, Warren and Miller appear around the corner, take
one look, and head straight for McMurphy.

			WASHINGTON
		(stopping just short)
	'Kay, let's have the keys an'
	nobody get hurt!

Washington's words are cut off as, O.S., Nurse Pilbow
SCREAMS... a bloodcurdling scream. They turn to see Nurse
Pilbow enter the nurses' station, her uniform splattered with
blood, hysterically talking to Big Nurse (we can't hear her).

Big Nurse and Nurse Pilbow rush out of the nurses' station
and head down the hallway.

McMurphy is glued to the spot.

			CANDY
		(calling from outside)
	Come on, come on, let's go!

McMurphy hesitates, then moves across the day room toward the
hallway.

INT. DOCTOR SPIVEY'S OFFICE - MORNING

CAMERA SHOOTING TOWARD the door, crammed full of patients,
who stare at the scene with curious detached looks, as Big
Nurse and Nurse Pilbow force their way through the patients.
The crowd parts and Big Nurse stops in the doorway, horrified
at what she sees. CAMERA HOLDS on Big Nurse's reaction. A
beat, then McMurphy appears alongside Big Nurse and is
stricken by what he sees.

McMURPHY AND BIG NURSE'S POV - REVERSE SHOT - DOCTOR SPIVEY'S
OFFICE

The office is splattered with blood. Billy is lying face up,
hanging over Spivey's desk, dead. His throat and both wrists
are cut. A broken picture frame, containing a photograph of
Spivey's family, lies nearby.

			MCMURPHY
	Billy, oh, Billy boy...

McMurphy crosses into the room and kneels alongside Billy's
body. He gently lays his hand on Billy's face.

			BIG NURSE
	Get away from him! Don't you dare
	touch him!

McMurphy turns and leaps at Big Nurse, grabbing her throat;
he drives her into the Acutes and Nurse Pilbow.

INT. HALLWAY - MORNING

as McMurphy, Big Nurse, Nurse Pilbow and several Acutes go
down, arms and legs intertwined, kicking, trying to get away
as McMurphy strangles Big Nurse.

Nurse Pilbow screaming, as Washington, Warren, Miller rush
in, trying to break his hold on Big Nurse's throat, her face
turning blue. McMurphy's face, twisted by his passion, when
Washington lands a rabbit punch and MeMurphy's face relaxes
as he passes out.

					DISSOLVE TO:

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

MUSIC OVER LOUDSPEAKER. The day room is as it was in the
beginning. Harding is dealing out a game of blackjack to
Martini,

Scanlon, Cheswick and Fredrickson.

Taber, pencil in band, sits pondering over a blank sheet of
paper.

Ruckly is turning a grimy photograph over in his hands.

Bancini sits wagging his head, mumbling over and over,
"Tired... awful tired..." Ellis stands against the wall, arms
outstretched.

			HARDING (V.O.)
		(over last scene, in
		McMurphy's style)
	Okay, suckers, place your bets...

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Bromden is mopping the floor near the security gate to the
visitors' room, when a key hits the lock. Bromden looks up
expectantly.

BROMDEN'S POV

as Sefelt and Miller enter the visitors' room, cross to the
security gate and pass into the hallway. Bromden goes back to
his mopping.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAY

as Sefelt jauntily enters the day room.

			BIG NURSE (V.O.)
		(through loudspeaker)
	Did everything go well, Mister
	Sefelt?

Sefelt turns to the nurses' station where, inside, Big Nurse
sits very erect, wearing a back brace that reaches up around
her neck. Sefelt shows his teeth and gums to Big Nurse.

			BIG NURSE (V.O.) (CONT'D)
		(through loudspeaker)
	That's very nice. Now, doesn't that
	make you feel better, Mister
	Sefelt?

			SEFELT
	Yes, ma'am...

			BIG NURSE
	Good...

She turns back to her work.

Sefelt crosses to the card game, where he sits and catches
Fredrickson's attention; showing him his teeth. Fredrickson
smiles at Sefelt and blows him a kiss.

			HARDING
		(who has been dealing)
	Big Ace... a lovely lady... another
	ace... an' a little trey, hey, hey,
	whadaya say... hit or sit?

			SCANLON
	Hit!

			SEFELT
		(to Fredrickson)
	Ya know what, Fred?

			FREDRICKSON
	What?

			HARDING
		(dealing a card to
		Scanlon)
	Big king, too bad...

			SEFELT
	Just wait till you hear...

			HARDING
	Hear what?

			SEFELT
	McMurphy killed two attendants and
	escaped...

			HARDING
	When?

			SEFELT
	Yesterday...

			HARDING
	Who told you that?

			SEFELT
	Gary Blinker...

			SCANLON
	Gary Blinker's fulla shit!

			MARTINI
	He's not!

			SCANLON
	He is!

Harding slams his card down on the table, rises and crosses
to the nurses' station where he taps on the side window.

Big Nurse gets up, crosses to the window and slides it open.

			BIG NURSE
	Yes, Mister Harding?

			HARDING
	Is it true McMurphy killed two
	attendants and escaped yesterday?

			BIG NURSE
	No. Mister Harding, that is not
	true.

					DISSOLVE TO:

INT. HALLWAY - LATE AFTERNOON

Bromden is squatting, leaning against the wall near the
security gate to the visitors' room, when a KEY HITS THE
LOCK. He looks up expectantly. This time it is McMurphy. Or
what was McMurphy, for his head is bandaged, and his tongue
hangs out of his mouth as he is led across the visitors' room
by an ATTENDANT.

McMurphy shows Bromden no sign of recognition, which Bromden
pays no attention to, thinking McMurphy is putting on the
same act he did when he came back from Electro-Shock Therapy.

Bromden joyously turns and runs down the hallway to the day
room.

INT. DAY ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

as Bromden crosses into the day room, gets a seat, and sits
facing the hallway, bursting with expectation.

A long beat, then the Attendant appears with McMurphy and
taps at the side door to the nurses' station.

The Acutes break off their card game and look at McMurphy;
their faces hang open at his appearance.

Big Nurse crosses to the side door, opens it, and steps out
into the day room. To the Attendant as she takes McMurphy by
the arm:

			BIG NURSE
	Thank you...

			ATTENDANT
	Yes, ma'am...

The Attendant exits.

			BIG NURSE
		(to McMurphy)
	Now, let's find you a place to sit,
	shall we, Mister McMurphy?

Big Nurse gently guides McMurphy to a seat on the Chronics'
side of the room.

Bromden can hardly contain himself as he waits for McMurphy
to go into his act.

The Acutes have already absorbed the reality of McMurphy's
condition as they exchange looks with each other.

			FREDRICKSON
		(whispering)
	Lobotomy...

			HARDING
	Yeah...

			SCANLON
	Yeah, that Gary Blinker is fulla
	shit...

The Acutes turn back to their card game as Harding shuffles
and deals the cards out.

Bromden keeps his eyes glued to Big Nurse and McMurphy.

			BIG NURSE
		(sitting McMurphy down)
	Here now, you sit here... That's
	it...

Big Nurse pats McMurphy's face and crosses back to the
nurses' station.

McMurphy just sits there, his head lolling to one side.

Bromden waits for McMurphy to go into his routine.

McMurphy just sits there.

Bromden snaps his fingers and slaps his thigh, then waits for
McMurphy to follow suit.

McMurphy just sits there slobbering.

Bromden slaps his thigh again.

No response from McMurphy.

The MUSIC PLAYS ON.

					DISSOLVE TO:

INT. MEN'S DORM - DAYBREAK

as Bromden stands by the window looking out. A long beat,
then he turns into the room and looks around.

BROMDEN'S POV

The patients are all asleep. The new night attendant is fast
asleep in the nurses' station.

Bromden quietly takes his pillow and goes to McMurphy's bed,
where he kneels and puts his head very close to McMurphy's. A
long beat as Bromden studies McMurphy's face.

			BROMDEN
		(whispering in McMurphy's
		ear)
	When I first came here I was so
	scared of being lost I had to
	holler so they could track me... I
	figured anything was better than
	being lost...

On the last word, Bromden places his pillow over McMurphy's
face and begins to suffocate him. McMurphy starts thrashing
and Bromden lies full length on McMurphy. A long beat, then
the thrashing ends. Bromden gets off McMurphy, replaces his
pillow, and crosses down the aisle toward the day room.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAYBREAK

The night attendant continues to sleep as Bromden passes the
nurses' station, heading for the tub room.

INT. TUB ROOM - DAWN

as Bromden crosses to the heavy machine which McMurphy had
once tried to lift, sizes it up, then bends over and takes
hold and heaves. The GRINDING WEIGHT is HEARD as Bromden
exerts all his strength, slowly lifts the machine off the
floor, balances it above his shoulders, then crosses out of
the tub room.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAWN

as Bromden comes around the corner and past the sleeping
night attendant in the nurses' station.

Bromden lines himself up with the window across the room,
then starts toward it, picking up speed as he goes. Then, at
the last moment, he stops and, with an enormous effort, he
hurls the machine through the security screen and the window.
A LOUD CRASH.

In the nurses' station, the night attendant starts awake and
looks around. Too late as Bromden vaults through the window.
CAMERA HOLDS on window as Bromden runs across the grounds and
disappears into the pine trees.

INT. DAY ROOM - DAWN

as the night attendant comes out of the nurses' station and
looks confusedly around. Then he spots the shattered window.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - EXTREME LONG SHOT - SUNRISE

Rolling hills, forests and distant mountains, bathed in
sunlight, as Bromden runs across a far-off meadow.

CREDITS OVER.

			THE END



