                                
                                 
                              SCREAM
                           (SCARY MOVIE)
                                 
                        by Kevin Williamson
                                 
                              Rewrite
                           July 31, 1995



FADE IN

ON A RINGING TELEPHONE.

A hand reaches for it, bringing the receiver up to the face of
CASEY BECKER, a young girl, no more than sixteen.  A friendly face
with innocent eyes.

                CASEY
        Hello.

                MAN'S VOICE
            (from phone)
        Hello.

Silence.

                CASEY
        Yes.

                MAN
        Who is this?

                CASEY
        Who are you trying to reach?

                MAN
        What number is this?

                CASEY
        What number are you trying to reach?

                MAN
        I don't know.

                CASEY
        I think you have the wrong number.

                MAN
        Do I?

                CASEY
        It happens. Take it easy.

CLICK! She hangs up the phone.  The CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal
Casey in a living room, alone.  She moves from the living room to
the kitchen.  It's a nice house.  Affluent.

The phone RINGS again.

INT.  KITCHEN

Casey grabs the portable.

                CASEY
        Hello.

                MAN
        I'm sorry. I guess I dialed the wrong number.

                CASEY
        So why did you dial it again?

                MAN
        To apologize.

                CASEY
        You're forgiven. Bye now.

                MAN
        Wait, wait, don't hang up.

Casey stands in front of a sliding glass door.  It's pitch black
outside.

                CASEY
        What?

                MAN
        I want to talk to you for a second.

                CASEY
        They've got 900 numbers for that. Seeya.

CLICK!  Casey hangs up.  A grin on her face.

EXT.  CASEY'S HOUSE - NIGHT - ESTABLISHING

A big country home with a huge sprawling lawn full of big oak
trees.  It sits alone with no neighbors in sight.

The phone RINGS again.

INT.  KITCHEN

Popcorn sizzles in a pot on the stove.  Casey covers it with a
lid, reaching for the portable phone.

                CASEY
        Hello.

                MAN
        Why don't you want to talk to me?

                CASEY
        Who is this?

                MAN
        You tell me your name, I'll tell you mine.

                CASEY
            (shaking the popcorn)
        I don't think so.

                MAN
        What's that noise?

Casey smiles, playing along, innocently.

                CASEY
        Popcorn.

                MAN
        You're making popcorn?

                CASEY
        Uh-huh.

                MAN
        I only eat popcorn at the movies.

                CASEY
        I'm getting ready to watch a video.

                MAN
        Really? What?

                CASEY
        Just some scary movie.

                MAN
        Do you like scary movies?

                CASEY
        Uh-huh.

                MAN
        What's your favorite scary movie?

He's flirting with her.  Casey moves away from the stove and takes
a seat at the kitchen counter, directly in front of the glass
door.

                CASEY
        I don't know.

                MAN
        You have to have a favorite.

Casey thinks for second.

                CASEY
        Uh...HALLOWEEN. You know, the one with the
        guy with the white mask who just sorta walks around
        and stalks the baby sitters. What's yours?

                MAN
        Guess.

                CASEY
        Uh...NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET.

                MAN
        Is that the one where the guy had knives
        for fingers?

                CASEY
        Yeah...Freddy Krueger.

                MAN
        Freddy-that's right. I liked that movie.
        It was scary.

                CASEY
        The first one was, but the rest sucked.

                MAN
        So, you gotta boyfriend?

                CASEY
            (giggling)
        Why? You wanna ask me out?

                MAN
        Maybe. Do you have a boyfriend?

                CASEY
        No.

                MAN
        You never told me your name.

Casey smiles, twirling her hair.

                CASEY
        Why do you want to know my name?

                MAN
        Because I want to know who I'm looking
        at.

Casey spins around like lightning facing the glass door.

                CASEY
        What did you say?

                MAN
        I want to now who I'm talking to.

                CASEY
        That's not what you said.

                MAN
        What do you think I said?

Casey CLICKS on the outside light.  A flood light illuminates the
backyard.  Her eyes survey the grounds.  But it's empty.  No one's
there.  She turns the light out.

On the stove, the popcorn POPS.

                CASEY
        I have to go now.

                MAN
        Wait...I thought we were gonna go out.

                CASEY
        Nah, I don't think so...

                MAN
        Don't hang up on me.

                CASEY
        Gotta go.

                MAN
        Don't...

CLICK!  Casey hangs up.  She checks the glass door making sure
it's locked and then moves to the stove as...

THE PHONE RINGS.

She slides the popcorn from the stove, reaching for the phone.

                CASEY
        Yes?

                MAN
        I told you not to hang up on me.

                CASEY
        What do you want?

                MAN
        To talk.

                CASEY
        Dial someone else, okay?

                MAN
        You getting scared?

                CASEY
        No-bored.

CLICK.  She hangs up.  The phone RINGS again.  She grabs it.

                CASEY
        Listen, asshole...

                MAN
            (deadly serious)
        NO, YOU LISTEN, YOU LITTLE BITCH. IF YOU
        HANG UP ON ME AGAIN I'LL GUT YOU LIKE
        A FISH. UNDERSTAND?

Total silence.  He has gotten her full attention.

                CASEY
        Is this some kind of a joke?

                MAN
        More of a game, really.

Casey eyes the glass doors, then looks up the hallway to the front
doors...moving to it.  It's unlocked.  She bolts it.

                CASEY
        I'm two seconds from calling the police.

                MAN
        They'd never make it in time.

Casey moves her face flush against the door, her eye looking
through the peephole.

ANGLE THROUGH PEEPHOLE.

A distorted view of the front porch.  It is empty.  She relaxes a
bit, relieved.

                CASEY
        What do you want?

                MAN
            (pure evil)
        TO SEE WHAT YOUR INSIDES LOOK LIKE.

Casey's jaw drops as total fear storms her face.  She hangs up the
phone, throwing it down on a side table when...

THE DOORBELL CHIMES.

Casey leaps out of her skin.  She turns to the door as it chimes
again.

                CASEY
            (calling out)
        Who's there?

Another CHIME.  She moves to it.

                CASEY
            (louder)
        Who's there?

No answer.  Fuck this.  It's time for the police.  She goes for
the portable phone. Just as she picks it up...

IT RINGS.

Casey almost drops it, losing her breath...

She brings it to her ear with trembling hands, saying
nothing...listening, waiting...

A long silence.  And then.

                MAN
        You should never say "Who's there?".
        Don't you watch scary movies? It's a
        death wish.

Casey clutches the wall, nearly collapsing.  She tries her
damndest to hang tough.

                CASEY
        Look, enough is enough. You had your fun
        now you better leave me alone or else.

                MAN
        Or else what?

CLOSE ON her face, her mind thinking, calculating...

                CASEY
        My boyfriend will be here any second and
        he'll be pissed when I tell him...

                MAN
        I thought you didn't have a boyfriend.

Busted.  She holds steady.

                CASEY
        I lied. I do have a boyfriend and he'll
        be here any second and your ass better
        be gone.

                MAN
        Sure...

                CASEY
        I swear it. And he's big and plays
        football and will beat the shit out
        of you.

                MAN
        I'm getting scared.

                CASEY
        I'm telling you the truth.
        I lied before...

                MAN
        I believe you...

                CASEY
        So you better leave.

                MAN
        His name wouldn't be Steve, would it?

Silence.  Casey buckles at the knees, losing it.

                CASEY
        How do you know his name?

                MAN
        Go to the back door and turn on the porch
        light--again.

Casey, terrified, forces herself to move.. staggering to the
kitchen...to the glass doors.  Her shaky hand finds the light
switch...she hits it.  The back yard is lit.

Sitting in a lawn chair in the middle of the backyard is a big,
line backer of a guy, her boyfriend...

STEVE

tied and gagged.  He's been roughed up, but he's alive.
CLOSE ON his eyes..wide in fear..staring at his girlfriend,
pleading with her.

                CASEY
        Oh Goddddd...

Casey SCREAMS.  Her hand moves to the lock on the door.

                MAN
        I wouldn't do that if I were you.

Terror rides Casey's face.  She's petrified.

                CASEY
        Where are you?

                MAN
        Guess.

Her eyes search the yard, combing bushes, trees.  He could be
anywhere-anywhere.

                CASEY
            (begging)
        Please don't hurt him.

                MAN
        That all depends on you.

                CASEY
        Why are you doing this?

Tears find their way, streaming down Casey's face.

                MAN
        I wanna play a game.

                CASEY
        No...

                MAN
        Then he dies. Right now.

                CASEY
        NOOO!

                MAN
        Which is it?

A long silence.  Casey touches the glass...staring at STEVE...this
big jock of a guy is crying too.

                CASEY
        What kind of game?

                MAN
        Turn off the light.

Her hand goes to the switch...Steve tugs and pulls at his
straps...as if begging her...his face sweat and tears...

CLICK

He disappears in the darkness.  Casey moves away from the glass,
back toward the living room, unbelieving, horrified.

                MAN
        Here's how we play. I ask a question. If
        you get it right-Steve lives.

Three curtainless windows line one wall.  Casey crouches down
behind the couch, tipping a lamp cord from it's socket, darkening
the room.  Her body quivers.

                CASEY
        Please don't do this...

                MAN
        Come on. It'll be fun.

                CASEY
        No...please.

                MAN
        It's an easy category. Movie trivia.

                CASEY
            (begging)
        ..please...

                MAN
        I'll even give you a warm up question.

                CASEY
        Don't do this. I can't..

                MAN
        Name the killer in HALLOWEEN.

                CASEY
        No...

                MAN
        Come on. It's you favorite scary movie,
        remember? He had a white mask, he
        stalked the baby-sitters.

Casey goes silent...a nervous wreck...she can barely speak much
less think.

                CASEY
        I don't know...

                MAN
        Come on, yes you do.

                CASEY
        Please..stop...

Casey is SOBBING.

                MAN
        What's his name?

                CASEY
        I can't think.

Casey has officially reached hysteria, petrified beyond all
reality.

                MAN
        Steve's counting on you.

Suddenly...through tears...Godsent...

                CASEY
            (a whisper)
        Michael...Michael Myers.

                MAN
        YES!

Casey SIGHS...relieved.

                MAN
        Now for the real question.

                CASEY
        NOOOO....

                MAN
        But you're doing so well.

                CASEY
        Please go away! Leave us alone!

                MAN
        Then answer the question. Same category.

Casey is a blubbering, wet mass on the floor.

                CASEY
        ..please..no...

                MAN
        Name the killer in FRIDAY THE 13TH.

A mad smile purses Casey's lips.  She knows this.  She leaps up,
through tears, screaming...

                CASEY
        Jason! Jason!...JASON!

A slight PAUSE.

                MAN
        I'm sorry. That's the wrong answer.

                CASEY
        No it's not. It was Jason.

                MAN
        Afraid not.

                CASEY
        It was Jason. I saw that godamned movie
        twenty times. It was Jason.

                MAN
        Then you should know Jason's MOTHER
        -Mrs.Vorhees was the original killer. Jason
        didn't show up until the sequel.

Casey is stupefied.

                CASEY
        You tricked me...

                MAN
        Lucky, for you there's a bonus round.
        But poor Steve...I'm afraid...he's out.

This implication sends Casey running to the kitchen...to the glass
doors.  She flips on the porch lights to see...

STEVE

eyes wide, sitting in the lawn chair...his belly gaping open...a
mass of blood and ripped flesh...his insides lay on the ground
between his feet...steam rising.

A SCREAM erupts from the bottom of her soul as Casey collapse on
the floor...nearly passing out.  CLOSE ON her face...pale and
ghostly white.  She SOBS.

                MAN
        Final question. Are you ready?

She doesn't answer.  A long, maddening silence.  Casey reaches up
and CLICKS off the light, making Steve go away...wishing,
hoping...

                CASEY
        ..leave me alone..please...

                MAN
        Answer the question and I will.

Casey is curled up on the floor like an infant, rocking slowly
back and forth.

                MAN
        What door am I at?

                CASEY
        What?

                MAN
        There are two doors to your house. A
        front door and a back one. If you answer
        correctly-you live.

From where Casey sits she can see both front and back doors.  She
deliberates...with her last bit of strength she tries to
strategize.  Eyeing both, the front door...the back door trying to
decide between the two.

                CASEY
        Don't make me...I can't...I won't.

                MAN
        Your call.

In the darkness, Casey crawls to the kitchen counter-she leans up
and grabs a long, sharp knife.

Casey looks around her...she looks down the hall to the front
door...then turns back to the kitchen glass door as it suddenly...

SHATTERS TO BITS...

as a lawn chair come flying through it.  Exploding glass sprays
everywhere.

This incites Casey like fire.  She springs to her feet...bolting
out of the kitchen as a SHADOW moves quickly through the shattered
doorframe.

ANGLE ON CASEY

Somewhere in the house, back flat against a window, listening to
FEET ON CRACKING GLASS.  She turns and unlocks the latch, quietly
sliding it up. She can hear him move through the foyer...to the
front door.

Casey lifts herself up and puts her legs through the window.  She
holds the knife in one hand, the phone in the other.

Casey eases out the window, fumbling, dropping the knife back in
the house.  She starts to reach for it.  Fuck it, she takes off...

EXT.  SIDE OF HOUSE

Casey it at the back corner of the house.

                MAN
        I can hear you. I know you're here.

Casey eases along a narrow path between a tall fence and the side
of the house...going for the front yard.  She must pass the three
curtainless windows.  She gets to the first one and peeks in...

The FIGURE has pulled open the foyer closet, searching for her.

Casey creeps along, to the next window, she looks in...the FIGURE
is completely on the other side of the room moving toward the hall
that leads to other parts of the house.

She moves further along the house...squeezing by hedges...to the
third window...she peeks in to the FIGURE...

STARING BACK AT HER...

His face covered with a ghostly white mask, inches from her...his
eyes piercing through...soulless...Casey SCREAMS BLOODY MURDER as
a hand...

CRASHES through the glass window grabbing hold of her neck...she
beats at him trying to free herself...her nails dig into his
arm...she wrenches from side to side...finally breaking free as
the hands disappear inside the house...

EXT.  CORNER OF HOUSE

Casey sails around the corner of the house, eyeing the front door.
It remains closed.  Her eyes cover the sprawling country yard when
suddenly....

HEADLIGHTS APPEAR

in the distance, coming down the road towards the house...she
recognizes them instantly.  Mom...Dad...she tears off across the
yard toward them...moving like lightning...

The car turns into the driveway...Casey SCREAMS, waving madly,
rushing by a tree as...

THE GHOST MASKED FIGURE APPEARS

Casey stumbles back, catching her balance...the FIGURE moves on
her, arm poised high...a flash of silver...and Casey is struck,
across the chest.  She looks down to see her shirt blossoming
red...a look of bewilderment as she drops to one knee.

The knife rises again...Casey throws her hand forward...the blade
comes down...but it's blocked by the portable phone still in her
hand.  She turns staggering to...

EXT.  DRIVEWAY

A MIDDLE-AGED COUPLE emerge from the parked car.  They move to the
front door completely unaware of what's happening to their
daughter, only feet from them.

EXT.  FRONT YARD

Casey stumbles forward...her parents ten feet away...she opens her
mouth to scream but no sound resonates...she is beyond
words...staggering, swaying...the FIGURE moving behind her.

EXT.  FRONT DOOR

Her parents approach the door

                FATHER
        That fish smelled strong.

                MOTHER
        I told you to send it back.

The father discovers the front door ajar.  A puzzled look.  Casey
is right behind them with one arm outstretched.  If they'd only
turn around...

They enter the house and close the door as....

Casey collapses on the ground, clutching her bloody chest...the
FIGURE upon her.

INT.  FOYER

The father sees straight back into the kitchen...the shattered
patio door.

                FATHER
        Jesus...

                MOTHER
        What is it? Where's Casey?

                FATHER
            (calling out)
        Casey? Casey?

In a split second they're both panic stricken.  The father begins
searching the house frantically.  The mother is hysterical.

EXT.  FRONT YARD

CLOSE ON Casey...she's dragged by her feet through damp soil...the
life going fast from her body...her hand still clutching the
phone.

INT.  FOYER

Back in the house.

                MOTHER
        Where is she?

                FATHER
        Call the police.

The mother moves  to the phone in the foyer, picks it up...There
is no dial tone.  She jiggles the base.

                FATHER
            (searching)
        Casey? Where are you honey? Call the
        police, goddammit.

                MOTHER
        The phone's dead.

The...the softest...faintest voice is heard...

                CASEY
            (from phone)
        ..help me...

                MOTHER
        She's here, God, I can hear her.
        Where's my baby?

The husband returns to the foyer finding his wife clinging to the
phone.

                FATHER
        Where is she?

                MOTHER
        I can hear her. Oh Mother of God,
        I can hear her.

The father upturns the living room.

                FATHER
        Casey! Casey!

                MOTHER
        Not my daughter...not my...

The husband grabs hold of his wife.

                FATHER
        Get in the car and drive down to
        the Mackenzie's.

The other throws the front door open and rushes out...the father
moves through the house when a SCREAM echoes out.  That of his
wife.  He tears off for the front door.

EXT.  FRONT DOOR

The father rushes out the door to find his wife, on her knees,
bent over, retching.  His eyes move beyond to a tree in the front
yard...his stomach fails him...his dinner rises...as he bares
witness to the single, most horrifying sight he'll ever see.

That of his only daughter as she hangs from a big oak
tree...strung up...very much dead...her stomach ripped open.

BLACKOUT!

BEGIN MAIN TITLES

FADE IN:

INT.  BEDROOM - SAME NIGHT

A teenage girl's room.  Neat and pinkish.  On the bed, amongst age-
old stuffed animals lie opened school books. The CAMERA PANS to a
desk against the wall where...

SIDNEY PRESCOTT

a young girl of 17, sits, her face glued to the computer monitor
in front of her.  CLOSE ON her face.  Sharp and clever with deep,
lonely eyes.  She's comfortable in a plain, flannel nightgown.

Her hands are at work, typing feverishly, when suddenly...

CRASH-BOOM

A noise behind her.  She turns abruptly, eyeing an open window
across the room. A SCRATCHING sound.  She stands and moves toward
it.

EXT.  WINDOW

Sidney sticks her head out the window.  The late night wind hits
her face as a SHADOW appears just to the left of her, a hand
reaches out, grabs her and suddenly a FIGURE is on top of her...

INT.  BEDROOM

Sid SCREAMS...pulling away from the figure...breaking free,
falling back onto the floor.

                VOICE
            (o.c.)
        Hey...it's just me.

Sid looks up to see...

BILLY LOOMIS

A young, strapping boy of seventeen.  Handsome and alluring.  A
star quarterback/ class president type of guy.  He sports a smile
that could last for days.

                SIDNEY
        Billy? What the...

                BILLY
        I'm sorry. Don't hate me.

                SIDNEY
        What are you doing here?

                BILLY
        You sleep in THAT?

Billy pulls himself through the window.

                SIDNEY
            (whispering)
        My dad's in the other room.

                BILLY
        I'll only stay a sec.

Suddenly...

The bedroom door BURSTS open.  The doorknob catches on the open
closet door behind it jamming it, holding it in place.

                VOICE
            (from behind door)
        What's going on in there?

Billy quickly rolls out of sight behind the bed.  Sidney unjams
the door to reveal...

MR. PRESCOTT, late 40's, a severe presence.  A distracted man,
nervous and pre-occupied.

                MR. PRESCOTT
        Are you okay?

                SIDNEY
        Can you knock?

                MR. PRESCOTT
        I heard screaming.

                SIDNEY
        No you didn't.

                MR. PRESCOTT
        No? Oh, well...I'm hitting the sack. My
        flight leaves first thing in the morning.
        Now the expo runs all weekend so I
        won't be back til Sunday. There's cash
        on the table and I'll be staying at the
        Raleigh Hilton...

                SIDNEY
        ..out at the airport...

                MR. PRESCOTT
        ..so call if you need me.

                SIDNEY
        Got it.

He gives the bedroom a quick once over.

                MR. PRESCOTT
        I coulda swore I heard screaming.

Sidney distracts him, giving him a peck on the cheek.

                SIDNEY
        Have a good trip.

                MR. PRESCOTT
        Sleep tight, sweetie.

He gives her a wink and pulls the door closed.  Billy reappears.

                BILLY
        Close call.

                SIDNEY
        What are you doing here?

Billy takes a flying leap and lands on the bed.

                BILLY
        It just occurred to me that I've never
        snuck through your bedroom window.

                SIDNEY
        Now that it's out of your system.

                BILLY
        And I was home, bored, watching
        television, THE EXORCIST was on
        and it got me thinking of you.

                SIDNEY
        Oh it did?

                BILLY
        Yeah, it was edited for TV. All the good
        stuff was cut out and I started thinking
        about us and how two years ago, we started
        off kinda hot and heavy, a nice solid "R"
        rating on our way to an NC17. And how
        things have changed and, lately, we're just
        sot of...edited for television.

                SIDNEY
        So you thought you could sneak in my
        window and we would  have little bump-
        bump.

                BILLY
        No, no. I wouldn't dream of breaking your
        underwear rule. I just thought we might do
        some on top of the clothes stuff.

She snuggles up next to him, planting a kiss on his lips.
Passionate and gentle.  He, however, reacts like a shark, moving
on top of her, his hands everywhere as he presses into
her...Sidney breaks away.

                SIDNEY
        Time to go, stud bucket.

Billy sits up.  His heart isn't racing...it's POUNDING.

                BILLY
        See what you do to me.

Sweat has popped out all over his forehead, his breathing heavy.

                SIDNEY
        You know what my dad will do to you?

                BILLY
        I'm going...I'm going.

He moves to the window.  She follows, motioning to his wound.

                SIDNEY
        I appreciate the romantic gesture.

She gives him a kiss goodnight.  Sweet and simple.

                BILLY
            (whisper)
        Hey..about the sex stuff. I'm not trying
        to rush you. I was only half serious.

She kisses him again as he eases through the window.

                SIDNEY
        Would you settle for a PG-13
        relationship?

                BILLY
        What's that?

She pulls her flannel gown open for a split second...flashing her
left breast.  His mouth drops open...surprise, shock.  Their eyes
meet.  They share a smile.

                SIDNEY
        Get outa here.

INT.  SIDNEY'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

CLOSE on Sidney snuggling her pillow, sleeping peacefully when...

THE RADIO ALARM BLASTS from the night table loud enough to wake
the dead.  Sidney bolts up.

                DISC JOCKEY
            (from radio)
        ..found brutally murdered...

CLICK.  Sidney, quick with the reflexes, shuts it off instantly.
A car trunk SLAMS shut outside.

Sidney pulls herself out of bed and leans to the window just in
time to see her Dad jumping in his car.  She half waves down at
him but he doesn't see her.  He's as good as gone, pulling out of
the driveway and disappearing down the road.

A moment as Sidney stands at the window, staring out after him.

EXT.  SCHOOL - MORNING

CLOSE ON A SIGN

"BAYBORO HIGH SCHOOL.  HOME OF THE FIGHTING BULLDOGS"

THE CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL a picture perfect small town
school.  Old and charming.  Students come and go, moving about.
Nothing unusual, except for the...

six police cars, four news vans, flashing cameras, and crowds and
crowds of lookie-loo's gathered just off campus.

EXT.  SIDEWALK

Sidney approaches the school seeing the commotion.  Four different
REPORTERS stand in front of four different cameras giving four
different news reports.

She moves passed a policeman standing guard.  Her interest peaked,
she stops at the first reporter who is...

GALE WEATHERS

Thirties.  He smart face is overshadowed by a flashy smile and a
massive mane of chemically enhanced hair.

                GALE
            (for the camera)
        The small town of Bayboro, North Carolina
        was devastated last night when two young
        teenagers were found brutally butchered.
        Authorities have yet to issue a statement
        but our sources tell us that no arrest
        has been made and the murderer could
        strike again...

ON SIDNEY.  Moved, disturbed.  From behind, a finger taps her
shoulder.  She spins around to see...

Tatum Riley, same age, feisty, carefree.

                TATUM
        Do you believe this shit?

                SIDNEY
        What happened?

They break away from the crowd and head for school.

                TATUM
        Oh God! You don't know? Casey Becker
        and Steve Forrest were killed last night.

                SIDNEY
        No way.

                TATUM
        And not just killed, Sid. We're talking
        splatter movie killed-split open end to
        end.

                SIDNEY
        Casey Becker? She sits next to me in
        English.

                TATUM
        Not anymore. Her parents found her
        hanging from a tree. Her insides on the
        outside.

                SIDNEY
        Do they know who did it?

                TATUM
        Fucking clueless-they're interrogating
        the entire school. Teachers, students,
        staff, janitors...

                SIDNEY
        They think it's school-related?

                TATUM
        They don't know. Dewey said this is
        the worst crime they've ever seen.
        Even worse than...
            (stopping herself)
        Well it's bad. They're bringing in the
        feds. This is big.

Sidney looks back at Gale, her face deeply pained.

INT.  CLASSROOM - LATER

A frumpy old woman, MRS. TATE, faces her class.  Her hands clasped
together.  A tragic look upon her face.

                MRS. TATE
        ..a terrible tragedy. An unbearable
        loss. It's days like today we need
        prayer in school...

Sidney sits near the rear of the room.  The desk in front of her
sits vacant.  Sidney can't take her eyes of it.

The door opens and a student opens with a slip of paper.  He hand
s it to Mrs. Tate.

                MRS. TATE
        Sidney. It appears to be your turn.

INT.  PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE

The room is at capacity...wall to wall with police, and the likes.
Some sit, stand, lean...

SHERIFF BURKE, a round man in his fifties, wipes the stress from
his face.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        Who's up next?

A young officer looks at the clipboard.  This is DEPUTY RILEY,
better known as DEWEY.  He's a big guy, 20's, handsome in a
scrubbed-clean boyish way.

                DEWEY
        Sidney Prescott.

Sheriff Burke gestures to bring her in.  PRINCIPAL HIMBRY, 50's,
an old codger of a man wearing a sour face speaks up.

                MR. HIMBRY
        Sidney Prescott. She was daughter of...

                DEWEY
        We all know Sidney, Mr. Himbry.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        How she doin'?

                MR. HIMBRY
        She's adjusted well. Maintains an "A"
        average. You never know she...

Himbry stops short, seeing Sidney in the doorway.  He rises and
seats her.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        Hi Sidney.

                SIDNEY
        Sheriff Burke. Dewey.

Dewey shakes his head seriously.

                DEWEY
        It's Deputy Riley today, Sid.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        How is everything?

                SIDNEY
        Good.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        And your Dad? How's he doing?

                SIDNEY
        We're fine. Thanks.

                MR. HIMBRY
        We'll be brief, Sidney. The police have a
        few questions they'd like to ask you...

Sidney eyes them all nervously.

EXT.  SCHOOL COURTYARD - LATER

Students sit at outdoor tables eating lunch.  Crowded at one table
is the "gang".  This consists of Sidney, Billy and Tatum.

Next to Tatum, sits her boyfriend STUART, with his arm draped
across her back.  He's a Billy wannabe.  Almost the jock, almost
handsome, almost cool.  He tries way to hard.

Across the table is the fifth wheel, RANDY.  A tall and gangly kid
with no such Billy-like aspirations.  A witty jokester who
elevates geek to coolness.

                TATUM
        Hunt? Why would they ask if you like
        to hunt?

                STU
        I don't know, they just did.

                RANDY
        Because their bodies were gutted.

Sidney flinches.

                BILLY
        Thanks Randy.

                TATUM
        They didn't ask me if I like to hunt.

                STU
        Because there's no way a girl could have
        killed them.

                TATUM
        That is so sexist. The killer could
        easily be female-BASIC INSTINCT.

                RANDY
        That was an ice pick-not exactly the
        same.

                STU
        Yeah, Casey and Steve were completely
        hollowed out. Takes a man to do
        something like that.

                TATUM
        Or a man's mentality.

                SIDNEY
            (quiet, almost to herself)
        How do you gut someone?

All eyes turn to Sidney.  A serious silence.  And then:

                STU
        You take a knife and slit from the groin
        to the sternum.

Sidney shivers down to her soul.  The whole table rolls their eyes
at Stu.

                STU
        What? She asked.

                BILLY
        It's called tact, you fuckrag.

                STU
        Sorry.

                RANDY
        Remember in JAWS when they caught the
        wrong shark at first and Richard Dreyfuss
        cut it open to look foe body parts and all
        they found was a licence plate and all this
        white milky goo.

Stu leans over and socks Randy in the arm.

                STU
        You heard Billy-shut the fuck up.

                SIDNEY
        Hey, Stu? Didn't you use to date Casey?

Stu's taken back, a little off guard.

                STU
        For about two seconds.

                RANDY
        Before she dumped him foe Steve.

Tatum turns to Stu, surprised.

                TATUM
        I thought you dumped her for me.

                STU
        I did. He's full of shit.

                RANDY
        And are the police aware you dated the
        victim?

                STU
            (offended)
        What are you saying? That I killed
        her or something?

                RANDY
        It would certainly improve your high
        school Q.

                TATUM
        Stu was with me last night.

                RANDY
        Oooooh...before or after he sliced and
        diced.

                TATUM
        Fuck you, nut case. Where were you last
        night?

                RANDY
        Working, thank you.

                TATUM
        I thought Blockbuster fired you.

                RANDY
        Twice.

                STU
        I didn't kill anybody.

                BILLY
        No one's saying you did.

                RANDY
        Besides-
            (perfect Stu mimic)
        "Takes a man to do something like that."

                STU
        I'm gonna gut your ass in a second.

                RANDY
            (to Stu)
        Did you really put her liver in the
        mailbox? I hear they found her liver
        in the mailbox.

                TATUM
            (eyeing Sidney)
        Randy, you goon-fuck, I'm eating here.

Stu nibbles at Tatum's neck.

                STU
        Yeah, Randy, she's getting mad. I think
        you better liver alone.

Stu cracks up at his own joke.  The others just MOAN.  Sidney is
about to crawl out of her skin, trying hard to ignore it all.

EXT.  SIDNEY'S HOUSE - LATER

A huge two story country home with a spacious lawn.

A yellow school bus stops in front of the house and Sidney steps
off.

The house looks big and lonely as Sidney moves up the walk to the
front door.

INT.  BEDROOM - LATER

Sidney is on the telephone.

                SIDNEY
            (into phone)
        You sure I can stay over?  My dad won't
        be back til Sunday.

                TATUM
            (through phone)
        No prob. I'll pick you up after
        practice.

                SIDNEY
        Tell your mom I said thanks.

                TATUM
        Yeah, yeah...are you okay?

                SIDNEY
        Uh-huh, it's just...you know, the police
        and reporters...it brings it all back.

                TATUM
        I'll be there by seven. I promise

                SIDNEY
        Thanks, Tatum.

                TATUM
        Later.

Sidney hangs up.  She takes a seat at her computer and boots it
up.  She sits in front of it staring at the blue screen...her own
reflection staring back.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - LATER

Sidney comes down the stairs, her arms carrying a change of
clothes, toothbrush, make-up...

She opens the hall closet and pulls a small overnight bag from the
top shelf.  Moving into the living room she loads it up, plopping
down on the sofa, hitting the TV remote.

CLOSE ON THE SCREEN

A news reporter fades in.

                REPORTER #1
            (on TV)
        The entire nation was shocked today by
        the teen murders in North Carolina...

Sidney switches channels.

                REPORTER #2
        The State Bureau of Investigation has
        joined forces with local authorities to
        help catch what the Governor has called
        the most heinous...

The channel switches again.  Gale weathers appears, standing in
front of the school.  Her white teeth gleaming.

                GALE
        This is not the first time the small town
        of Bayboro has endured such tragedy. Only
        a year ago, Maureen Prescott, wife and
        mother, was found raped and murdered...

An old black and white snapshot fills the screen-a woman,
beautiful and familiar.

CLOSE ON SIDNEY

eyes frozen, mesmerized by the image.  Suddenly she CLICKS the TV
off.  Her eyes go to the clock on the end table.  5:45 PM.  Her
eyes then move to the framed photo next to it...the same black and
white photo stares at her...a healthy, vibrant woman.  An older
version of Sidney.

Sidney curls up on the sofa closing her eyes tight...

INT.  LIVING ROOM - LATER

The clock on the end table reads 7:15 PM.  Sidney is fast asleep
on the couch.  The phone RINGS.  Sidney leaps up grabbing the
portable phone.

                TATUM
            (from phone)
        Practice ran late. I'm on my way.

                SIDNEY
            (eyes clock)
        It's past seven.

                TATUM
        Don't worry. Casey and Steve didn't bite
        it til way after ten.

                SIDNEY
        I'm not worried.

                TATUM
        Good, 'cause I wanna swing by BLOCKBUSTER
        and get us a video. I was thinkin' Tom Cruise in
        ALL THE RIGHT MOVES. You know, if you
        pause it just right you can see his penis.

                SIDNEY
        Whatever. Just hurry.

                TATUM
        Bye.

She hangs up the phone.  It immediately RINGS again.

                SIDNEY
            (into phone)
        Tatum?

                MAN'S VOICE
            (from phone)
        Hello, Sidney.

IT'S HIM.  THE VOICE FROM BEFORE.

                SIDNEY
        Hi. Who is this?

                MAN
        You tell me.

Sidney thinks, trying to place his voice.  It sounds a little
distorted.

                SIDNEY
        I have no idea.

                MAN
        Scary night, isn't it? With the murders
        and all, it's like right out of a horror
        movie or something.

                SIDNEY
        Aha, Randy, you gave yourself away. Are
        you calling from work? Tatum's on her
        way over.

                MAN
        Do you like scary movies, Sidney?

                SIDNEY
        I like that thing you're doing with your
        voice, Randy. It's sexy.

                MAN
        What's your favorite scary movie?

                SIDNEY
        Don't start. You know I don't watch that
        shit.

                MAN
        And why is that?

                SIDNEY
            (playing along)
        Because they're all the same. It's
        always some stupid killer stalking some
        big breasted girl-who can't act-who
        always runs up the stairs when she should
        be going out the front door. They're
        ridiculous.

A brief silence.

                MAN
        Are you alone in the house?

                SIDNEY
        That is so unoriginal. You disappoint me,
        Randy.

                MAN
        Maybe that's because I'm not Randy.

                SIDNEY
        So who are you?

                MAN
        The question is not who am I. The
        question is where am I?

                SIDNEY
        So where are you?

                MAN
        Your front porch.

This gives her pause.  She moves to the window and pulls aside the
drapes.

                SIDNEY
        Why would you call me from my
        front porch?

                MAN
        That's the original part.

ANGLE THROUGH WINDOW.  She can't quite see all of the porch.

                SIDNEY
        Oh yeah? Well I call your bluff.

Sidney goes to the front door.  She unlocks the bolt, unsnags the
chain, and pulls the door open...revealing the front porch...

COMPLETELY EMPTY.

She steps out onto it, phone still in hand.  A single light shines
overhead illuminating the porch, but little beyond.  Darkness is
all around.

                SIDNEY
        So where are you?

                MAN
        Right here.

Sidney peers out into the darkness past thick shrubs that grow on
either side of the porch.

                SIDNEY
        Can you see me right now?

                MAN
        Uh-huh.

                SIDNEY
        What am I doing?

She sticks her finger up her nose, pretending to pick.  Silence.
No answer.

                SIDNEY
        Good try, Randy. Tell Tatum to hurry.
        Bye now.

                MAN
        If you hang up, you'll die just like your
        mother.

Sidney stops dead in her tracks, speechless.

                MAN
            (deadly)
        Do you want to die, Sidney? Your mother
        didn't.

His seriousness unnerves her.  Sid flies off the handle.

                SIDNEY
        FUCK YOU! YOU CRETIN!

She hangs up on him.  Moves back inside the house.  Locks, chains,
and bolts the door when...

A FIGURE COMES LEAPING OUT OF THE HALL CLOSET

rushing her, ramming into her side..the phone flies..the FIGURE is
on top of her as she goes down...SCREAMING...

She looks up to see the FIGURE, darkly dressed with a pale,
distorted face, white and ghostly...a mask.

Her instincts surface and she kicks up with her foot making the
contact with his leg...he topples over...coming right at her, his
hand finding her neck.  Suddenly, along, silver blade appears
above her.

Sidney pulls, jerks, twists...finally she lifts her torso forward
knocking the FIGURE off her...sending him reeling into the living
room.  Wasting no time, Sidney leaps to her feet.

She moves to the front door, unlocks it...pulls it open...it
catches on the chain.  Shit!  She pushes it closed again looking
behind her..the FIGURE has risen, knife in hand.
Sidney pulls on the chain and then-inexplicably turns and...

RUNS UP THE STAIRS.  The FIGURE right behind her.

INT.  UPSTAIRS LANDING

The FIGURE leaps at Sidney taking hold of her foot, she grabs
madly at the wall...her hands grasp a framed painting-a quiet
country home, subdued colors, done in oils-she rips it from the
wall swinging it behind her...

It catches the FIGURE head on, smashing against his skull, sending
him backwards, tumbling down the stairs.  Sidney races to her
bedroom...

INT.  BEDROOM

She locks the door shut, the pulls her closet door open, placing
the edge right at the door knob just as...

THE FIGURE POUNDS AGAINST THE BEDROOM DOOR...

ramming it, it rips open, but the closet door catches it in a
crazy vice-like hold.

Sidney grabs the desk phone.  It's dead...off the hook downstairs.

The figure rushes the door several times..the frame splinters..but
won't give.

Sidney is at her computer, she punches at the keypad madly.

CLOSE ON SCREEN AS WORDS APPEAR.

        FAX MODEM

        9-1-1 SEND

The knife slashes through the crack in the door wildly.

ON SCREEN AGAIN

        HELP KILLER

        34 ELM ST

Sidney presses SEND when it occurs to her-all is quiet.  The
FIGURE is gone.  A fearful silence.  She looks around...the only
sound her own rapid, terrified BREATHING.

ON THE SCREEN

        "Stay calm.  Police enroute."

Suddenly a NOISE at the window...Sidney looks up to see...

BILLY

her boyfriend, staring at her, surprised.

                SIDNEY
        Oh Billy...Please...God...

                BILLY
        I heard screaming. The door was locked.
        Are you okay...

                SIDNEY
        He's here. He's trying to kill me...

Billy pulls himself through the window.  As he does, a small black
object falls from his dark jeans.  It hits the floor as Sidney
eyes it...a sleek, compact cellular phone.

Sidney stops in her tracks.  Their eyes meet...an eternity.  A
SIREN is heard in the distance.  Sidney bolts...

                BILLY
        Hey...wait...what's goin..

Billy reaches for her.  Sidney unblocks the bedroom door and tears
out of the room.

INT.  LANDING

Sidney nearly falls down the stairs...

INT.  FOYER

She rips the chain off the door, pulls it open, coming face to
face with a white, ghostly mask.
A massive SCREAM erupts from her gut as...

THE CAMERA PULLS BACK

to find Dewey-Deputy Riley, holding it.  Red lights flash, sirens
BLAST vas car after car surrounds the house.

Sidney falls into the safety of Dewey's arms.

EXT.  FRONT YARD - MINUTES LATER

The yard is a whirlwind of activity.  An ambulance, squad cars,
cops everywhere...

CLOSE ON BILLY'S FACE

as it SMASHES against the hood of a police car.  His hands are
being cuffed, his rights being read.

                BILLY
            (screaming)
        I didn't do anything! Sid...where's Sid?
        Ask her, she'll tell ya...

Dewey holds a car door open as Sheriff Burke steps out.

                DEWEY
        We got him, Sheriff. Billy Loomis.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        Hank Loomis' kid? Aw..Jesus...

                DEWEY
        He's her boyfriend.

They approach Billy as he's being placed in a squad car.

                BILLY
        Sheriff...I didn't do it...please, call
        my Dad..please...

The squad car disappears with Billy as another car comes to a stop
in front of the house.  Tatum gets out, freaked beyond belief.

Back to the Sheriff and Dewey as they storm across the yard.

                DEWEY
        I was first to respond.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        What were you doing out here?

                DEWEY
        Drive by patrol.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        How is she?

                DEWEY
        She's tough.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        Have to be. The shit she's gone through.

Across the yard sits Sidney, in the back of an ambulance as
PARAMEDICS check her out.

Sheriff Burke and Riley approach.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        We're seeing a lot of you today.

She tries to smile but fails.

                DEWEY
        You gonna be able to come down to the
        station and talk to us a bit?

                SIDNEY
        ..yeah...

TATUM appears, barreling past an OFFICER.

                TATUM
        What happened? Oh God...

Tatum rushes to her, grabbing hold of her.

                DEWEY
            (to Tatum)
        What are you doing here?

                TATUM
        Oh, God, Sid, I'm sorry I was late.

                DEWEY
        You can't be here, Tatum. This is an
        official crime scene.

                SIDNEY
        It's okay. She was supposed to pick me
        up.

                TATUM
        Her dad's out of town. She's staying
        with us.

                DEWEY
        Does mom know?

                TATUM
        Yes, you doofus.

Two news vans come driving up the street.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        The vultures are coming. Let's get you
        out of here.

EXT.  STREET

A big, white news van comes to a stop in front of the house.  The
side door slides open and Gale Weathers hops out just in time to
see Sidney being escorted to a squad car.

                GALE
        I'll be damned.

Jumping from the driver's seat is KENNY, Gale's cameraman and
flunky.  An earnest young chap on the chubby side.

                KENNY
        What? What?

                GALE
        Jesus! The camera-hurry!

But it's too late.  Sidney is as good as gone.  Gale sees Tatum
moving quickly to her car.

                GALE
        Excuse me?

Tatum looks up to see Gale Weathers rushing her.

                GALE
        Was that Sidney Prescott they took away?

                TATUM
        I don't know.

Tatum hops in her car, ignoring her.

                GALE
        What happened to her?

                TATUM
        I'm not talking to you.

Tatum's car peels out as Kenny comes running up with his camera.

                KENNY
        Where'd she go?

Gale spins around, flashing her pearly whites.

                GALE
        Look, Kenny, I know you're about fifty
        pounds overweight but when I say hurry
        please interpret that as...MOVE YOUR
        FAT TUB OF LARD ASS NOW!

Gale moves back to the van leaving Kenny miffed.

INT.  POLICE STATION

A small town station.  The bull pen is a little square room with
four desks and tonight--it's hopping.  Cops everywhere.

INT.  SHERIFF'S OFFICE

Sidney sits at a desk drinking a cup of water.  She wears the
Sheriff's jacket over her shoulders.  Dewey approaches.

                SIDNEY
        Did you reach my Dad?

                DEWEY
        You're sure it was the Hilton?

                SIDNEY
        At the airport.

                DEWEY
        He's not registered. Could he have gone
        to another hotel?

                SIDNEY
        I don't know. I guess.

                DEWEY
        We'll find him, Sid. Don't worry.

Sidney stares blankly, numb.

INT.  SHERIFF'S OFFICE

Billy sits opposite Sheriff Burke.  Next to Billy, sits his
father, HANK LOOMIS, an older version of Billy.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        What are you doing with a cellular
        telephone, son?

                MR. LOOMIS
        It's my phone. He was just playing
        around with it.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        You got some ideas of playing around, boy.

                BILLY
        I didn't call anyone with it. I just
        took it for fun.

                MR. LOOMIS
        Everybody's got one now. Why don't you
        check the phone bill for chrissakes.
        Call my carrier--AirFone Comp. They'll
        have records of every number dialed.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        Thank you, Hank. We're on it. What were
        you doing out at Sidney's tonight?

                BILLY
        I just wanted to see her, that's all.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        You rode your bike out there?

                BILLY
        Yes, sir.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        And last night? Sidney said you crawled
        through her window last night too?

                MR. LOOMIS
            (surprised)
        You were out last night?

                BILLY
        I watched TV for awhile but the I felt
        like going for a bike ride.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        Did you ride past Casey Becker's house?

                BILLY
        No, I didn't. I didn't kill anyone,
        Sheriff.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        We're gonna have to keep you, Billy. The
        governor's got SBI, FBI, and god knows
        who else on their way down here.

Billy fights tears.

                BILLY
        This is crazy. I didn't do it.

Sheriff Burke eyes him up and down, very carefully.

INT.  POLICE BULL PEN - MINUTES LATER

Tatum has joined Sidney.  The sheriff's door opens and Billy is
led out by a coupla UNIFORMS.  Burke and Dewey appear in the door
watching Tatum comfort Sidney.

OUT OF EAR SHOT

                DEWEY
        That ghost mask is sold at both Kroger's
        and WalMart. Neither of which keep
        purchase records.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        What about the cellular phone bill?

                DEWEY
        They're pulling Loomis' account. But
        it'll be morning before we see something.
        You think he did it?

                SHERIFF BURKE
        Twenty years ago I woulda said not a
        chance. But these kids today...damn if I
        know.

                TATUM
            (o.s.)
        Hey...Dewey. Can we go now?

                DEWEY
        Hold up a sec...

                SHERIFF BURKE
        She staying with you?

                DEWEY
        We haven't located her Dad yet.

                TATUM
            (o.s.)
        Goddammit, Dewey!

Dewey turns to her, his face red.

                DEWEY
        What did Mama tell you? When I wear this
        badge you treat me like a man of the law.

                TATUM
        I'm sorry, Deputy Dewey-boy but we're
        ready to go.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        Use the back way. Avoid the circus.

EXT.  POLICE STATION - SIDE DOOR

The door opens and Sidney, Tatum, Dewey, and a coupla OFFICERS
exit avoiding the horde of REPORTERS that can be seen around the
corner waiting anxiously at the front entrance.

                DEWEY
        I'll get the car. Wait here.

Dewey takes off.  From the darkness of the alley, Gale Weathers
appears with Kenny and his camera.  They've been waiting.

                GALE
        Hello Sidney.

Sidney spins around to see Gale, standing, smiling at her.
Sidney's body tightens and her face goes taut.

                GALE
        Some night. Are you alright?

Their eyes meet in cold familiar stare.  Sidney says nothing.
She's visibly shaking.

                GALE
        What happened?

                TATUM
        She's not answering any questions. Just
        leave us alone, okay?

                SIDNEY
        It's okay, Tatum. She's just doing her
        job. Right, GALE?

                GALE
        Yes, that's right.

Dewey, in a squad car, turns into the alley and pulls up.  The
other news people have wisened up.  They begin to flock the alley.

                SIDNEY
        How's the book?

                GALE
        It'll be out later this year.

Sidney tries to contain herself..squeezing a clenched fist.

                SIDNEY
        I'll look for it.

                GALE
        I'll send you a copy.

In a blurred, unexpected instant, Sidney brings her fist forward,
SMASHING it hard into Gale Weathers's face.  The impact sends Gale
reeling backwards, knocking into Kenny as they both tumble to the
pavement.

ON SIDNEY...breathing deep, a sense of satisfaction on her face.

INT.  TATUM'S BEDROOM - LATER

A spacious bedroom.  Typical.  Tatum and Sidney lay on the bed.
They both wear night shirts.

                TATUM
        God, I loved it. "I'll send you a copy."
        BAM! Bitch went down. "I'll send you a
        copy." BAM! Sid--SuperBitch!

Dewey appears in the doorway holding a bag of ice.

                DEWEY
        I thought you might want some ice for
        that right hook.

Sidney sits up, takes the ice, and puts it on her hand.

                DEWEY
        I'll be right next door. Try to get some
        sleep.

Dewey moves back out the door.

                SIDNEY
        Any word on my Dad?

                DEWEY
            (turning to her)
        Not yet, but we're looking. If you need
        anything...

                TATUM
        Yeah, yeah, yeah...

Dewey smiles, pulling the door closed on his way out.  Sidney lies
back down.

                SIDNEY
        Just another sleepover at the Riley's.

                TATUM
        Just like old times, ain't it?

                SIDNEY
        No, nothing's like it used to be.

Sidney rolls over at her side, away from Tatum.

A telephone RINGS somewhere in the house.

                TATUM
        Do you really think Billy did it?

                SIDNEY
        He was there, Tatum.

                TATUM
        I knew this guy was too perfect. He was
        destined to have a flaw.

A KNOCK at the door.  It opens and a friendly, graying woman pops
in.  This is MAMA RILEY.  She wears a comforting smile.

                MAMA RILEY
        Telephone, dear.

                TATUM
        Who is it?

                MAMA RILEY
        It's for Sid

                SIDNEY
        My Dad?

Mama Riley shakes her head sadly.

                TATUM
        Take a message.

                SIDNEY
        It's alright. I'll get it.

Sidney takes off out the door.  Mama Riley motions to Tatum.

                MAMA RILEY
            (whispers)
        How is she?

Tatum shrugs.

INT.  HALLWAY

Sidney grabs the phone at the end of the hall.

                SIDNEY
        Hello?

                MAN
            (from phone)
        Hello Sidney.

IT'S HIM.  The CAMERA does a Hitchcock as Sidney's entire body
goes weak..his VOICE moving through her..invading her.  She CRIES
OUT.

                SIDNEY
        NOOOOOO...

Mama Riley turns in the doorway.  Tatum comes bolting out of the
bedroom.

                MAN
            (from phone)
        Poor Billy-boyfriend. An innocent guy
        doesn't stand a chance with you.

                SIDNEY
        LEAVEMEALONE!

                MAN
        Looks like you fingered the wrong
        guy...again.

                SIDNEY
        Who are you?

                TATUM
        Hang up, Sid.

                MAN
        Don't worry. You'll find out soon
        enough. I promise.

Mama Riley BEATS on a closed bedroom door.

                MAMA RILEY
        Dewey! Dewey!

                MAN
        This is gonna be fun, Sidney. Just like
        old times.

CLICK.

Dewey flies out of his room wearing only his boxers...holding his
gun.

                DEWEY
        What? What?

The phone goes dead.  Sidney stands frozen.

EXT.  BAYBORO MAIN STREET - DAWN - ESTABLISHING

The morning sun shines high over Bayboro Townsquare.  Cars come to
life, townsfolk stir as the picture postcard community awakens
from a restless sleep.

INT.  KITCHEN - MORNING

Sidney and Tatum sit at the kitchen table, dressed and ready for
school as Mama Riley serves up breakfast.  A small television sits
on the counter BLARING.

Dewey, in uniform, stands near the door, talking on the phone.

                MAMA RILEY
        I think you girls really should stay home
        today.

                TATUM
        Your objection is duly noted.

                SIDNEY
        I'd rather be around a lot of people,
        Mama Riley.

From the TV, Sidney hears her name, "SIDNEY PRESCOTT..."  All eyes
go to the television.

                REPORTER
            (on TV)
        ..who escaped a vicious attack last night
        was the daughter of Maureen Prescott who
        was brutally killed last year when
        convicted murderer Cotton Weary...

INSERT of COTTON WEARY, in prison fatigues.  A once handsome man,
now haggard and worn.

                REPORTER
            (cont'd)
        ..broke into their home and savagely
        raped and tortured the deceased. Cotton
        Weary is currently awaiting appeal for
        the death sentence handed down after the
        young Sidney testified against him. She
        was the key witness in the state's
        prosecution...

                SIDNEY
        It's never gonna stop. Is it?

Dewey is off the phone.

                DEWEY
        Billy was released. His cellular bill
        was clean. He didn't make those calls.

                SIDNEY
        Somebody called me, Dewey. I'm not
        making it up.

                DEWEY
        I know. We're checking every cellular
        account in the county. Any calls made to
        you or Casey Becker are being cross-
        referenced. It's gonna take time but
        we'll find him.

                SIDNEY
        And my Dad? Any word on him?

Riley shakes his head "no".

EXT.  SCHOOL STREET - LATER

Once again, REPORTERS line the street attacking students as they
make their way to school, asking questions, hungry for that
teenage insight.

Dewey's patrol jeep cruises by.  Sidney watches from the
passenger's window.

INT.  PATROL CAR

Dewey pulls up in front of the school.  Tatum hops out while Sid
lingers, suddenly unsure.  Dewey takes notice.

                DEWEY
        Hey, it's school. You'll be safe here.

Sidney forces herself out of the jeep as a microphone is shoved in
her face...

                REPORTER
        How does it feel to almost be brutally
        murdered?

Dewey leaps from the car, intercepting the reporter.

                DEWEY
        Leave the girl alone, will ya? She wants
        to go to school.

Sidney eyes the newsvan that's pulled up behind her.  The side
door slides open and Gale Weathers steps out.

                TATUM
        Come on, Sid.

                SIDNEY
        Just a sec...I need to talk to someone.

She heads over to Gale.

EXT.  NEWSVAN - STREET

Sidney, puts her head down, hiding her face...avoiding other
reporters as she makes her way to...

Gale who sits in the open door, checking her face in a mirror.
Makeup tries hard to hide Sid's handwork-a swollen black and blue
right cheek.

Gale spots Sidney immediately and leaps to her feet.

                GALE
        Stop right there.

Sidney throws her hands up in surrender.

                SIDNEY
        I'm not here to fight.

                GALE
        Just stay back.

                SIDNEY
        I want to talk to you.

                GALE
            (calling into the van)
        Kenny. Camera. Now.

Kenny's head darts out from the van.

                SIDNEY
        Off the record. No cameras.

                GALE
        Forget it.

Sidney contains herself.

                SIDNEY
        Please. You owe me.

                GALE
        I owe you shit.

Gale moves inside the van.  But Sidney is relentless.

                SIDNEY
        You owe my mother.

                GALE
        Your mother's murder was last year's
        hottest court case. Somebody was gonna
        write a book about it.

                SIDNEY
        And it had to be you with all your lies
        and bullshit theories.

                GALE
        What is your problem? You got what you
        wanted. Cotton Weary is in jail.
        They're gonna gas him. A book is not
        gonna change that.

                SIDNEY
        Do you still think he's innocent?

Gale's interest is peaked.  She eyes Sidney suspiciously.

                GALE
        He was convicted in a court of law. Your
        testimony put him away. It doesn't
        matter what I think.

                SIDNEY
        During the trial, you did all those
        stories about me. You called me a liar.

                GALE
        I think you falsely identified him. Yes.

                SIDNEY
        Have you talked to Cotton?

                GALE
        Many times.

                SIDNEY
        Has his story changed?

                GALE
        Not one word. He admits to having sex
        with your mother but that's all.

                SIDNEY
        He's lying. She wouldn't have touched
        him. He raped her, then butchered her.
        Her blood was all over his coat.

                GALE
        He was drunk that night. He left his
        coat at your house, after your mother
        seduced him...

                SIDNEY
        I saw him leaving wearing it.

                GALE
        But couldn't it have been someone else
        you saw wearing that coat? The same
        person who planted it in Cotton's car,
        framing him? The same person who
        really killed your mother?

A long beat.  Sidney considers this for the millionth time.

                SIDNEY
        No, Cotton murdered my mother.

But there's doubt in her voice.  Gale's face lights up.

                GALE
        You're not so sure anymore, are you?

Sidney clams up.

                SIDNEY
        No, it was Cotton.

Tatum comes waltzing up.

                TATUM
            (to GALE)
        Nice welt.

Gale ignores her, zeroing in on Sidney, half realizing.

                GALE
        The killer is still on the loose, isn't
        he? These murders are related.

                TATUM
        Yo--let's rock.

Sidney starts to fidget.

                SIDNEY
        I'm sorry I mangled your face.

She take off with Tatum.  Gale calls after her.

                GALE
        Wait, Sidney, don't go...

But Sidney and Tatum have already disappeared in the crowd of
students moving across campus.

Gale looks to Kenny.

                GALE
        Jesus Christ! An innocent man on death
        row. A killer still on the loose.
        Kenny, tell me I'm dreaming.

                KENNY
        You want to go live?

Gale's mind races with possibilities.

                GALE
        No, not so fast. We have nothing
        concrete.

                KENNY
        When did that ever stop you? You can't
        sit on this. This is huge.

                GALE
        If I'm gonna blow this up-I need hard
        proof.

                KENNY
        But it's so much easier when we make it
        up.

                GALE
        Not this time. I owe Cotton that much.
        Hell, even I thought that man was guilty.

EXT.  SCHOOL CAMPUS - SECONDS LATER

Tatum and Sidney make their way across campus.

                TATUM
        Just relax. You're at school now. No
        one can get you here.

                SIDNEY
        But if it wasn't Billy it could be
        anybody. He could be here at school
        right now.

They move up the walk as a FIGURE falls in step behind them,
sporting a WHITE GHOST MASK.

                TATUM
        Serial killers are smart by definition.
        They minimize their risk. They plan and
        pre-calculate everything. Showing up
        here would be the most lame-brain
        move he could make.

                SIDNEY
        He promised me he'd be back.

As easy as the figure appeared, it disappears-falling out of site,
unseen by either of them.

                TATUM
        I wouldn't put too much stock in a
        psycho's promise.

They move up the front steps toward the main doors of the school
as the GHOST MASKED FIGURE reappears...standing at the top of the
steps...Sidney sees it first, stopping dead in her tracks.

She steps back, spinning around to find...

A GHOST FACE behind her as well, both of them approaching, closing
in on her.  Sidney starts to SCREAM when the two ghosts bust up
LAUGHING, tearing off across campus.

EXT.  STREET

In front of the school we catch up a REPORTER doing a live remote.
He holds a mask in his hand.

                REPORTER
        This morning several students, in what
        appears to be a prank, have been spotted
        wearing masks. School officials have yet
        to comment but this is the same type of
        mask worn by the killer...

INT. HALLWAY - MINUTES LATER

Just before the bell.  The hallway is congested with students
heading to class.  Tatum is at her locker with Sidney.

                SIDNEY
        This is a mistake. I shouldn't be here.

                TATUM
        I want you to meet me here right after
        class, okay?

Billy appears in the crowd, with Stu tagging behind.  Tatum spots
him first.

                TATUM
        Shit, what is he doing here?

                SIDNEY
        I bet he's pissed.

                TATUM
        Just ignore him. You had good reason to
        think what you did.

Billy and Stu approach.  Billy's face is solemn.

                BILLY
        Hi, Sid. Can we talk a sec?

Sidney says nothing.  She can barely look at him.  Tatum
intervenes.

                TATUM
        You know if I were accused of carving up
        two people, I'd take the opportunity to
        skip school.

                STU
        Hey, go easy, Tatum. He didn't do it.

                BILLY
        Talk to me, Sid.

Suddenly, a SCREAM erupts.  All eyes go to a GHOST MASKED STUDENT
running down the hall, screaming wildly, running amuck.

                SIDNEY
        Why are they doing this?

                STU
        Are you kidding? This is like Christmas.

Billy punches Stu in the side.

                STU
        Owwww...

                BILLY
        You open your mouth and stupidity pours
        out.

                STU
        Sorry.

Sidney, clearly upset, takes off down the hall.  Billy races off
after her.

                TATUM
            (yelling)
        Stay away from her, Billy.

Tatum SLAMS her locker door shut as the bell RINGS.

INT.  CORRIDOR - SECONDS LATER

With first period underway, the halls have cleared.  One or two
struggling students can be seen rushing to class.

Sidney moves quickly down the hall, rounding a corner, running
smack into...

BILLY

They collide hard catching Sidney off guard, scaring the life out
of her.  She falls backwards, but Billy catches her fall.

                SIDNEY
        Jesus, SHIT!

                BILLY
        Hey, hey, it's just me.

Sidney pulls away from him quickly.  Billy feels the slight.

                BILLY
        What? You don't still think it's me?

Sidney catches her breath.

                SIDNEY
        No...I don't...it's just...Oh God, Billy,
        someone was there, someone tried to
        kill me.

                BILLY
        The police say I scared him off. It
        wasn't me, Sid.

                SIDNEY
        I know. He called again last night at
        Tatum's house.

                BILLY
        See, it couldn't have been me. I was in
        jail, remember?

                SIDNEY
        I'm so sorry...please understand.

                BILLY
        Understand what? That I got a girlfriend
        who would rather accuse me of being a
        psychopathic killer than touch me.

                SIDNEY
        You know that's not true.

                BILLY
        Then what is it? Is there somebody else?

                SIDNEY
        No...

                BILLY
        Is it the sex thing? Am I being too
        pushy?

                SIDNEY
        No, it's me, Billy. I need time. I'm
        still adjusting to my mom.

                BILLY
        It's been a year since she died.

                SIDNEY
            (correcting him)
        Tomorrow. One year tomorrow.

                BILLY
        When are you gonna let that go, Sid?
        When my mom left my dad--I just accepted
        it. This is the way it is. She's not coming
        back.

                SIDNEY
            (sharply)
        Your parents split up. It's not the same
        thing. Your mom left town, she's not in
        a coffin somewhere.

                BILLY
        You have to move on, Sid.

Sidney starts to walk away but turns back, angry.

                SIDNEY
        I'm glad to know you're coping so well
        with life, Billy. But some of us aren't so
        perfect. Some of us are just trying to
        hold on.

Sidney disappears through a door marked GIRL'S BATHROOM, leaving
Billy alone in the hallway.  He SMACKS his forehead, pissed at
himself.

INT.  GIRL'S BATHROOM

Large and spacious.  Closed bathroom stalls line one wall facing a
row of sinks and a huge mirror.  Sidney enters as TWO GIRLS tinkle
and talk--each from their respective stalls.

                GIRL #1
        She was never attacked. I think she made
        it all up.

                GIRL #2
        Why would she lie about it?

                GIRL #1
        For attention. The girl has some serious
        issues.

Sidney listens intently.

A toilet FLUSHES.  Sidney quickly jumps in a stall, hiding, just
as GIRL #1 appears from a stall.  She looks like that voice--a
snotty little twit.

                GIRL #1
        What if she did it? What if Sidney
        killed Casey and Steve?

                GIRL #2
        And why would she do that?

                GIRL #1
        Maybe she was hot for Steve and killed
        them both in a jealous rage.

Another toilet FLUSHES.

                GIRL #2
        Why would Sidney want to be with Steve?
        She has her own bubble-butt boyfriend Billy.

                GIRL #1
        Maybe she's a slut just like her mom.

INSIDE THE STALL Sidney listens.  Her face weakening.

                GIRL #2
        You're evil.

                GIRL #1
        Please, it's common knowledge. Her
        mother was a trollop.

GIRL #2 appears from her stall--another twit.  They both stand in
front of the mirror adjusting two snotty faces.

                GIRL #2
        Cut some slack. She watched her mom get
        butchered.

                GIRL #1
        And it fucked her up royally. Think
        about it. It makes perfect sense. Her
        mom's death leaves her distraught and
        hostile at a cruel and inhumane world,
        she's disillusioned, where's God, etc.
        Completely suicidal. And one day she
        snaps. She wants to kill herself but
        realizes teen suicide is out this year.
        And homicide is a much healthier
        therapeutic expression.

From the stall, Sidney listens, her heart pounding, jaw quivering.

                GIRL #2
        Where do you get this shit?

                GIRL #1
        Ricki Lake.

The two girls exit.  Sidney moves out of the stall, catching her
reflection in the mirror.

                SIDNEY
        Pathetic.

Water DRIPS somewhere from a leaky pipe as wind WHISTLES in from
the cracked transom above the bathroom door.  It sound almost like
a whisper,   "Siddneey..."

Sidney spins around.  What the...  She checks out the bathroom.
The doors to the stalls are all closed.  She bends down and scans
beneath them, looking for feet.  No one.  Nothing.

Sidney turns back to the mirror.  Suddenly...

                MAN
            (o.c. whisper)
        Siddneey...

Unmistakable this time.  The VOICE strikes Sidney like a nail
through the eye.  It comes from one of the stalls.  She stands
thunderstruck, eyeing the stalls thru the mirror.

                SIDNEY
        Is someone there?

A long, morose silence.  And then:

                MAN
            (softly, simply)
        It's me, Sidney.

Sidney spins around.  Fuck no!  HE'S HERE.  Terror floods her
face.  She eyes the exit door, then the row of stalls she must
pass to get to it.

She checks under the stalls again.  Nothing...where the fuck is
he?  She takes a step forward when...

TWO FEET step down from a toilet onto the floor in the last stall.
Sidney's face draws tight as the stall door begins to CREAK open.
She bolts forward, making a break for it...but slips on the wet
floor...her feet flying out from under...

Sidney reaches out...grabs hold of a sink...saves herself from
falling...she glimpses a GHOST MASK in the mirror coming for her.
A hand grabs her shoulder as she SLAMS her body through the exit
door...narrowly escaping.

INT.  CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

Sidney flies out of the bathroom door SCREAMING...burning up the
hallway, not looking back.  A TEACHER, hearing her SCREAM, peer
out from an open doorway...as Sidney sprints by him, not
stopping...running madly.

INT.  PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

CLOSE on a red-faced Principal Himbry as he reads someone the riot
act.

MR. HIMBRY
I'm sickened. Your whole havoc-inducing,
thieving, whoring generation disgusts me.

The CAMERA SWINGS AROUND to reveal two GHOST MASKED STUDENTS
standing at attention.  Mr. Himbry rips the mask off of one of the
student's heads.

                MR. HIMBRY
        Two students have been savagely murdered.
        And this is how we express our compassion
        and sensivity?

He rips the mask off the other student.

                MR. HIMBRY
        We throw on a mask and dance around
        campus just hoping someone else gets
        butchered before we get bored again.
        You're both expelled.

The GHOSTS doth protest...

                GHOST #1
        Aw, come on, Mr. Himbry, it was just a
        joke.

                GHOST #2
        Yeah, that's not fair.

A deep rooted hostility has taken over Mr. Himbry's face.  Neither
student budges, scared to even breathe.

                MR. HIMBRY
        No, it's not fair. Fairness would be to
        rip your insides out and hang you from
        a tree so you can be exposed for the
        desensitized, heartless little shits that
        you are.

Suddenly the door BURSTS open and Sidney appears, hysterical.

                SIDNEY
            (crying)
        He's here...I saw him...he's here...

Mr. Himbry rushes to her, arms outstretched.

                MR. HIMBRY
        Easy child.

Sidney collapses in his arms.

EXT.  SCHOOL STREET - MINUTES LATER

Dewey's patrol jeep is parked in front of the school.  He stands
in the open driver's door talking on the radio.

                SHERIFF BURKE
            (from radio)
        She's okay. Looks like some boys were
        teasing her. Himbry's shutting down the
        school though. I want you to take look
        around.

                DEWEY
        Yes, sir, sheriff.

Dewey shuts the jeep door and heads for campus when Gale Weathers
appears, her fake face aglow.

                GALE
        Hi! Gale Weathers. Field Correspondent,
        INSIDE STORY.

                DEWEY
        I know who you are, ma'am. How's the
        eye?

                GALE
        Productive. So they're closing down the
        school?

                DEWEY
        Well..uh...yes ma'am. For the time being.

Dewey heads for the school building. Gale scurries along side him
flirtatiously.

                GALE
        And why is that? Has something happened?

                DEWEY
        You're not supposed to be here, ma'am.

                GALE
        I know, I should be in New York covering
        the Sharon Stone stalker but who knew?
        Please, call me Gale. You look awfully
        young to be a police officer.

Dewey's eyes wander down to Gale's long legs, the way her hips
move as she walks...he's clearly distracted.

                DEWEY
        I'm twenty-five years old, ma'am.

                GALE
        Twenty-five, huh? In a demographic study
        I proved to be most popular amongst
        males, 11-24. I just missed you. Of course,
        you don't look a day over twelve, except
        in the upper torso area. Does the force
        require that you work out?

Dewey looks away, blushing a bit.

                DEWEY
        No, ma'am. Because of my boyish good
        looks, muscle mass has increased my
        acceptance as a serious police officer.

They approach the school's front entrance.  Suddenly, Mr. Himbry's
VOICE in amplified through intercoms across campus via the PA
system.  They stop to listen.

                MR. HIMBRY
            (via PA)
        "Your attention please. Due to the
        recent events that have occurred and
        until it comes to a resolve--effective
        immediately--all classes are suspended
        til further notice. The Bayboro Police
        Dept. has also asked me to announce a
        city wide curfew beginning at 6 o'clock
        PM. I repeat..."

Gale speaks over Mr. Himbry's voice.

                GALE
        Boy, you people sure do make fuss over
        a serial killer.

                DEWEY
        Serial killer is not really accurate,
        ma'am. The killer has yet to strike
        twice.

                GALE
        Well, we can hope, can't we? We
        certainly don't have any leads. A ghost
        mask, a cellular phone--not much there.

                DEWEY
        We're tracking the cellular phone bill.

                GALE
        Really? You small town guys are good.
        And have you located Sidney's father?

                DEWEY
        No, not yet.

                GALE
        He's not a suspect, is he?

                DEWEY
        We haven't ruled out that possibil...

Dewey, realizing he's said too much, clams up.

                DEWEY
        If you'll excuse me, ma'am.

                GALE
        Am I keeping you? I'm sorry.

                DEWEY
        That's quite alright. If I may say so,
        ma'am, you're much prettier in person.

Dewey starts up the school's front steps as the bell RINGS.

                GALE
        So you do watch the show?

He turns to her earnestly as STUDENTS come pouring out the front
doors.

                DEWEY
        I just turned 25. I was 24 for a whole
        year.

                GALE
        You are precious. Please, call me Gale.

She smiles deliciously, gives him a wink, then struts off as
Dewey, like a nervous little school boy watches her go.

INT.  SCHOOL CORRIDOR - SECONDS LATER

School is clearing out.  The halls have begun to empty as Tatum
escorts Sidney down the hallway.

                TATUM
        It was just some sick fuck having a
        laugh.

                SIDNEY
        It was him, Tatum. I know it.

Tatum wants to believe her but...

                TATUM
        You are not to be alone again. Is that
        clear? If you pee--I pee.

Stu appears.

                STU
        Is this not cool or what? Hey, Sid,
        what happened?

                TATUM
        For once, Stu, drop it.

                STU
        Okay, but whatever you did--the entire
        student body thanks you.

Stu moves to Tatum and gives her a kiss.

                STU
        And to celebrate this impromptu fall
        break, I propose we have a party.
        Tonight, my house.

                SIDNEY
        Are you serious?

                STU
        My parents are out of town. It'll be
        like my hurricane bash last year.
        Nothing extreme. Just a few of us,
        hangin'.

Tatum warms to the idea.

                TATUM
        This could be good. What do you think,
        Sid?

                SIDNEY
        I don't know...

                TATUM
        Come on. Pathos has it's perks.

Sidney considers trying hard to be good spirited.

                STU
        Remember, there's safety in numbers.

                SIDNEY
            (giving in)
        Yeah, okay...whatever.

                STU
        Cool. See you guys tonight. Bring food.

Stu speeds off, sliding down the empty hallway.

INT.  PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE - LATER

Mr. Himbry sits at his desk staring at the ghosts masks before
him.  He picks one of them up, snickering.

                MR. HIMBRY
        Damn...

He stands and moves to the closet next to his office door.  He
pulls it open to reveal a mirror hooked inside the door.  He tries
the mask on, pulling it over his face, looking in the mirror
when...

A KNOCK AT THE DOOR stops him.  He rips the mask off his head,
turns to his office door and opens it to reveal...

AN EMPTY DOORWAY.  He pokes his head into the outer office area
and looks around.  But no one's there.

                MR. HIMBRY
        Yes? Hello?

The place is empty.  A little suspicious he closes the door,
catching his reflection in the closet mirror.  He looks at the
mask in his hands.  Jesus, even he's jumpy.  Two seconds later...

ANOTHER KNOCK AT THE DOOR.  Himbry grabs the door quickly, this
time throwing it open.  Again no one's there.  He steps out into
the outer office determined to catch a prankster.

INT.  OUTER OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Completely empty.  Mr. Himbry moves through the outer office and
into the school corridor.  The overhead lights have been turned
off and the corridor is now dark and deserted.  He looks up and
down the hall.  Only a JANITOR is seen in the distance pushing a
broom.

                MR. HIMBRY
        Little shits.

Mr. Himbry returns to his office.

INT.  OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Himbry reenters his office, moving to his desk, when he spots the
closet door NOW CLOSED SHUT.

This gives him a pause-he had left it open.  Hadn't he?  Suddenly,
he can't remember.  He shifts uneasy, reaching for the door knob,
pulling the door open to reveal...

AN EMPTY CLOSET.  He stands still a moment, suddenly realizing
someone could easily now be standing behind the open closet door.
Nervously, he pushes it shut to reveal...

NOTHING.  Himbry shakes away his jitters, realizing he's spooked
himself.  He continues to his desk, pushing his office door shut
when...

A GHOST MASKED FIGURE lunges from behind it...knife in hand.
Quick and easy.  Three quick jabs to the stomach and Himbry goes
down.  The GHOST MASKED FIGURE towering above him.

EXT.  TATUM'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON - LATER

The late afternoon sun is quickly disappearing.

Tatum and Sidney rock on the front porch looking out into the
small town neighborhood.  Dewey's patrol jeep is parked in the
driveway.

Despite loud music, BLARING from an inside stereo, this is a quiet
moment.

                TATUM
        Maybe Cotton Weary is telling the truth.
        Maybe he was having an affair with your
        mom.

                SIDNEY
        So you think my mom was a slut too?

                TATUM
        I didn't say that, Sid. But you know
        there were rumors. Your dad was
        always out of town on business.
        Maybe your mom was a very unhappy
        woman.

                SIDNEY
        If they were having an affair how come
        that Cotton couldn't prove it in court?

                TATUM
        You can't prove a rumor. That's why it's
        a rumor.

                SIDNEY
        Created by that little tabloid twit Gale
        Weathers.

                TATUM
            (delicately)
        It goes further back, Sid. There's been
        talk about other men.

                SIDNEY
        And you believe it?

                TATUM
        Well...you can only hear that Richard
        Gere-gerbil story so many times before
you have to start believing it.

A long silence as Sidney agonizes over all of this.  She stands up
and moves to the edge of the porch and stares out onto the
neighborhood.

                SIDNEY
        If I was wrong Cotton, then he's still
        out there.

                TATUM
        Don't go there, Sid. You're starting to
        sound like some Wes Carpenter flick.
        Don't freak yourself out--we've got a
        long night ahead of us.

                SIDNEY
        You're right. I'm cracking up. Ignore
        me.

                TATUM
        Come on, let's rock.

Sid follows Tatum inside the house never seeing the GHOST MASKED
FIGURE that stands across the street, under a tree.  His presence
so subtle and unobtrusive you'd have to see this movie a second
time to know he was there all along.

EXT.  MAIN STREET - LATER

Stu is moving along main street when Billy comes barreling up next
to him.

                BILLY
        How'd you do?

                STU
        Piece of cake. She'll be there.

                BILLY
        Thanks, butt wart. You did good.

                STU
        So you gonna try and make up with Sid?

                BILLY
        Duh...that's quick.

                STU
        I was just asking. Why are you always at
        me?

                BILLY
        Because I'm trying to build your self-
        esteem. You're far too sensitive.

                STU
        Oh....

Billy thumbs Stu's forehead.

                BILLY
        You ready to party hard tonight?

                STU
        You know it.

They come to a building centrally located in the heart of Main
Street.  A huge, blue monstrosity that's bigger than the local
bank and post office combined. The sign in front reads
BLOCKBUSTER.

INT.  BLOCKBUSTER - CONTINUOUS

You typical Blockbuster--huge and crowded.  Randy, in his
Blockbuster get up, is busy reshelving returns when Stu appears--
knocking the videos out of his hand.

                STU
        Jesus, this place is packed.

                RANDY
            (picking up videos)
        We had a run in the mass murder section.

                STU
        You coming tonight?

                RANDY
        Yeah, I'm off early--curfew you know.
            (looking off)
        Now that's poor taste.

                STU
        What?

Randy refers to Billy who stands down the aisle talking to TWO
GIRLS.  (The twits from the bathroom perhaps.)

                RANDY
        If you were the only suspect in a
        senseless bloodbath would you be standing
        in the horror section?

                STU
        It was all a misunderstanding. He didn't
        do anything.

                RANDY
        You're such a little lap dog. He's got
        killer printed all over his forehead.

                STU
        The why'd the police let him go?

                RANDY
        Because, obviously they don't watch
        enough movies. This is standard horror
        movie stuff. PROM NIGHT revisited.

Randy moves down the aisle, reshelving videos.

                STU
        Why would he want to kill his own
        girlfriend?

                RANDY
        There's always some stupid bullshit
        reason to kill your girlfriend. That's
        the beauty of it all. Simplicity.
        Besides, if it's too complicated you lose
        your target audience.

                STU
        So what's his reason?

                RANDY
        Maybe Sidney wouldn't have sex with him.

                STU
        She's saving herself for you.

                RANDY
        Could be. Now that Billy's tried to
        mutilate her, you think Sid would go out
        with me?

                STU
        I think her father did it. How come they
        can't find his ass?

                RANDY
        Because he's probably dead. His body
        will come popping out in the last reel
        somewhere...eyes gauged. See, the police
        are always off track with this shit, if they'd
        watch PROM NIGHT they'd save time.
        There's formula to it. A very simple one.
        Everyone's always a suspect--the father,
        the principal, the town derelict...

                STU
        Which is you...

                RANDY
        So while they're off investigating a dead
        end, Billy, who's been written off as a
        suspect, is busy planning his next
        hunting expedition.

                BILLY
            (o.c.)
        How do we know you're not the killer?

Randy spins around to find Billy right behind him.  Busted.

                RANDY
        Uh...hi, Billy.

                BILLY
        Maybe your movie-freaked mind lost it's
        reality button?

Randy shrugs, laughing it off.

                RANDY
        You're absolutely right. I'm the first
        to admit it. If this were a scary movie,
        I'd be the prime suspect.

                STU
        And what would be your motive?

                RANDY
        It's 1995--motives are incidental.

EXT.  MAIN STREET - LITTLE LATER

Dewey's patrol jeep makes it's way down mainstreet.  It's almost
dark.  The street is close to deserted.

INT.  PATROL JEEP - CONTINUOUS

Dewey's behind the wheel having a heated conversation with Tatum
while Sid stares out the window.

                DEWEY
        A party? Mom's gonna kill you. Then me.

                TATUM
        Don't be so self-righteous. It's just a
        little blow out--we'll be perfectly safe.

Sid stares out the window. CLOSED SIGNS fill the storefronts, a
few people rush to their car, in a hurry to beat curfew.

                SIDNEY
        God, look at this place, it's THE TOWN
        THAT DREADED SUNDOWN.

                DEWEY
        Hey, I saw that movie. True story, 'bout
        some killer in Texas.

                TATUM
        Hey, Sid. Just think if they make a
        movie about you. Who's gonna play you?

                SIDNEY
        Oh, god...

Dewey comes to a stop, parking the car in front of the police
station. He looks to Sid with a brotherly smile.

                DEWEY
        I see you as a young Meg Ryan myself.

                SIDNEY
        Thanks, Dewey. But with my luck they'd
        cast Tori Spelling.

EXT.  PATROL JEEP - CONTINUOUS

They pile out of the jeep.  Dewey heads for the station.

                DEWEY
        I'll just be a few minutes. Don't go
        far.

The girls take off for the local supermarket that sits across the
street.

                SIDNEY
        Is Billy going to be there tonight?

                TATUM
        He better not be. I told Stu to keep his
        mouth shut. I think we can live without
        EVERYBODY'S ALL AMERICAN for
        one night.

They approach the grocery store.  Small and simple.  Sid and Tatum
grab a shopping cart from the bin and enter the store, pushing the
cart through two sliding glass doors.

A lone CHECKOUT LADY behind the counter, big and frumpy, looks up
from counting money.

                CHECK OUT LADY
        You girls gonna have to hurry it up.
        We're under curfew.

                TATUM
        Two minutes tops.

They make a bee-line for the junk food section just as the
automated doors slide shut behind them and a...

GHOST MASKED FIGURE appears, out of nowhere, standing just
outside, watching, quietly through the glass store windows.

EXT.  POLICE STATION - SHERIFF'S OFFICE

Sheriff Burke's face heats up as Deputy Riley marches in,
hurriedly.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        Dewey! Where the hell you been, boy?

                DEWEY
        Keeping my eye on Sidney.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        Listen up, Dewey, because it's bad. Real
        bad. Aircomp just faxed us. The calls
        were listed to Neil Prescott--Sidney's
        father. He made the calls with his cellular
        phone. It's confirmed.

                DEWEY
        Couldn't his cellular number have been
        cloned?

                SHERIFF BURKE
        There's more. Guess what tomorrow is?
        The anniversary of his wife's death. It all
        fits. He's our man.

                DEWEY
        Have you contacted the bureau?

                SHERIFF BURKE
        They believe he's out of state by now.
        We'll keep roadblocks and curfew in
        effect through the night. If he's not
        picked up by morning--we'll do a house
        to house.

                DEWEY
        You think he could still be in town?

                SHERIFF BURKE
        He'd have to be crazy. Where's Sidney?

                DEWEY
        She's with my sister. Should I bring her
        in?

                SHERIFF BURKE
        Hold off for now. Just stay close to
        her.

                DEWEY
        She'll be with her friends over at Stu
        Maker's tonight.

                SHERIFF BURKE
        Watch her. Don't let on--just keep your
        eyes out.

                DEWEY
        Yes, sir.

INT.  SUPERMARKET - FEW MINUTES LATER

Sidney and Tatum push a basket through the junk food section.  The
store is completely empty.  The girls gab freely.

                SIDNEY
        Billy's right. Whenever he touches me, I
        just can't relax.

                TATUM
        You have a few intimacy issues as a
        result of your mother's untimely death.
        It's no big deal. You'll thaw out.

                SIDNEY
        But he's been so patient with me, Tatum.
        You know, with all the sex stuff. How
        many guys would put up with a girlfriend
        who's sexually anorexic?

                TATUM
        Billy and his penis don't deserve you.

Sidney grabs some chips and salsa from the shelf.  Down the aisle,
through the storefront window the GHOST MASKED FIGURE still stands
watching their every move.

EXT.  SUPERMARKET

Sid pushes the cart out of the glass door with Tatum riding it.
The GHOST MASKED FIGURE is nowhere to be found.

                SIDNEY
        What do you think about when you're
        having sex?

                TATUM
        With Stu, there's little time to stop and
        reflect. But sometimes before, to relax
        and get in the mood, I think about Grant
        Goodeve.

Sid pushes the cart and Tatum across the street.

                SIDNEY
        Who?

                TATUM
        Grant Goodeve--the oldest brother on
        EIGHT IS ENOUGH. Remember that show? He
        was the one who lived off alone. He would come
        around every now and then with his guitar and
        sing "Eight is enough to fill our lives with love..."
        He had all these brain dead sisters and that idiot
        brother from CHARLES IN CHARGE. God, I
        was in love with Grant, he was so hot. The show
        came on every day after school right during my
        puberty years. Grant Goodeve was very instrumental
        in my maturing as a woman.

                SIDNEY
        How does that get you in the mood with
        Stu?

                TATUM
        During foreplay, I sing the theme song to
        myself. "Eight is enough to fill our lives
        with love..." It's a real turn on.

                SIDNEY
        No way.

                TATUM
        Grant wrote the song himself. I'm
        convinced the lyrics had a secret
        meaning, "Eight is enough..."

Sid pushes the cart up to Dewey's jeep.  Tatum hops off.

                SIDNEY
        What secret meaning? Like a Satanical
        thing?

                TATUM
        Watch the show, Sid. His basket is
        bigger than the one you're pushing.

                SIDNEY
        TATUM!

                TATUM
        Oh, Sidney. WHAT? A guy can talk tits
        til he's dead but the minute you mention
        an eight inch weenie. Watch out.

Sidney stops just short of a laugh.  Tatum pulls the back jeep
door, loading the groceries in.  Behind her, the GHOST MASKED
FIGURE appears, just out of their sight, behind the jeep's open
back door.

                TATUM
        There's that sense of humor. I knew it
        still existed. Ohh, Sid, let's have some
        fun tonight.

                SIDNEY
        Deal.

Sidney moves to the back door and closes it shut, when from
behind...

DEWEY stands.  Sid jumps, startled.

                DEWEY
        You girls ready.

                SIDNEY
        Yeah.

                DEWEY
        Looks like I'm your personal bodyguard
        tonight, Sid.

                TATUM
        No, Dewey. You'll ruin the whole night.

                DEWEY
        Sorry, police orders. I'll stay out of the
        way, I promise.

                TATUM
        Shit.

Tatum kicks the shopping cart out of the way, blindly.  It rolls
down the road by itself, gaining speed on a decline running smack
into the GHOST MASKED FIGURE who stops the cart cold with one
hand.

EXT.  COUNTRY ROAD - NIGHT

Dewey's jeep makes it's way down a long, winding road.  Headlights
illuminate the thick woods that line each side.  Following behind
them at a discreet distance is a huge white newsvan.

Dewey comes to the end of the road.  It dead ends at...

STU'S HOUSE which sits alone in a clearing, big and ominous with
no neighbors in sight.  A huge old home just ripe for a night of
fun and...terror.

From the looks of things the party has already started.  Music is
BLARING. A few KIDS hang on the porch.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - MINUTES LATER

A big room with KIDS sprinkled throughout-smoking, drinking,
cutting up.  A stereo BLASTS music while the TV airs around the
clock killer coverage.

Tatum and Sid enter with groceries.  Various FRIENDS greet them.

                TATUM
        Caterer's here.

The girls carry bags through a hallway that opens up onto an
enormous kitchen.  Stu and some GUYS are leaning over the sink
drinking beer through a funnel.

                TATUM
        That's mature.

                STU
        Where you guys been? We had to start
        without you.

EXT.  STU'S HOUSE - ROAD

The newsvan pulls up and parks unobtrusively on the side of the
road a few feet down from the front yard.

INT.  NEWSVAN

Kenny and Gale move around inside the van.  Kenny hovers over a
control panel complete with video monitors.

                KENNY
        What's the plan?

                GALE
        Prep the compact, we'll hide it in a
        window and tape all of tonight's
        festivities.

Kenny picks up a compact video camera the size of his fist.  He
checks its battery pack.

                KENNY
        The control board's glitched. You know
        we can't carry a live picture.

                GALE
        What's the delay?

                KENNY
        About thirty seconds.

                GALE
        As long as it records I don't give a
        shit. We're not doing a remote.

Gale slides open the side door and steps out into the darkness,
not seeing the FIGURE that stands behind her.  A hand grabs her
shoulder, Gale's heart stops as she spins around to find...

Dewey, smiling, extremely pleased to see her.

                DEWEY
        Evening, ma'am.

                GALE
        Deputy...good evening.

                DEWEY
        What brings you out to these parts?

                GALE
        You never know when or where a story will
        break.

                DEWEY
        Not much story here. Just a bunch of
        kids cutting loose.

                GALE
        Then what are you doing here?

                DEWEY
        Keeping an eye on things. Checking the
        place out.

                GALE
        Mind if I join you?

Dewey considers for a whole two seconds.

                DEWEY
        Not at all.

Gale leans in the van, grabs the camera from  Kenny's hand, and
throws it in her bag.  She gives Kenny a wink.

INT.  KITCHEN

CLOSE ON a microwave.  Popcorn POPS inside.  CAMERA WIDENS TO
REVEAL...

Sid, Stu, and Tatum moving about the kitchen, preparing a junk
food feast.  Other TEENS pop in and out. Randy appears amongst
them.  He carries an armful of videos.

                RANDY
        I thought we'd make it a BLOCKBUSTER
        night.

He lets the videos splatter across the kitchen counter.  Stu and
Tatum dive in.

                STU
        I thought everything was checked out.

                RANDY
        I had 'em hid in the foreign section.

Sidney peruses the videos.

                SIDNEY
        THE FOG, TERROR TRAIN, PROM NIGHT
        --How come Jamie Lee Curtis is in all these
        movies?

                RANDY
        She's the Scream Queen.

                STU
        With that set of lungs--she should be.

                TATUM
            (to Sid)
        Tits--see.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - FEW MINUTES LATER

The party is going strong.  Ten maybe fifteen people stand, sit,
lean.  Some crowd around the floor in front of the television.
Randy is taking a vote.

                RANDY
        How many EVIL DEAD'S?
            (hands go up)
        How many HELLRAISER'S?

Hands go up.  BICKERING AD-LIB, etc.

The doorbell RINGS.  Stu goes for it.

                STU
        I got it. Tatum get me a beer. They're
        in the fridge in the garage.

                TATUM
        What am I? The beer wench?

                STU
            (o.c.)
        Hey, guess who's here? It's that chick
        from INSIDE STORY?

They look up the hallway to see Dewey and Gale standing in the
foyer.

                TATUM
        Shit, Dewey!

Everyone perks up, eyeing Gale.

                TATUM
        What is she doing here?

                DEWEY
        She's with me. I just wanted to check on
        things.

The GUYS in the room are drooling over Gale.  Including Stu.

                TATUM
        So you did--now leave...and take your
        media muff with you.

Tatum takes off for the kitchen.

Gale has quickly become the focus of the party.  All eyes are on
her.

                SOME TEEN
        I watch your show regularly.

                STU
        This must be big news to be on INSIDE
        STORY.

                GALE
        Huge.

                ANOTHER TEEN
        Wanna interview us?

                RANDY
        We could be like two grief stricken
        students and we'll say really nice things
        about our good friends who were
        slaughtered senselessly.

                STU
        I can cry on cue.

Gale eyes the bookshelf above the television.

                GALE
        Maybe later?

Suddenly, Gale starts to COUGH.

                GALE
        Can I trouble you for some water?

                STU
        How 'bout a beer? Randy--get the lady a
        beer.

                RANDY
        You get it.

Gale slips the camera from her bag--hits the ON switch and holds
it behind her...waiting for the right moment.

BACK IN FOYER

                SIDNEY
        Have they found my father?

                DEWEY
        Afraid not.

                SIDNEY
        Should I be worried?

                DEWEY
        Not yet.

INT.  KITCHEN

Tatum is alone in the kitchen.  She empties popcorn into a bowl,
then pulls open the refrigerator...looks quickly, then
remembers...

She moves through the adjoining laundry room to the...

INT.  GARAGE

The kitchen door opens and light floods the darkened garage.
Tatum stands in the doorway searching for a light switch.

She finds a button and hits it.  BRRRRMMM!  The electric garage
door starts to rise.  Wrong switch.  She hits it again and it
closes.

She finds another switch.  CLICK.  A small lightbulb overhead
comes on, barely lighting the large two car garage, leaving
pockets of shadows along the wall.

Tatum spots the refrigerator against a far wall and heads for it,
not seeing the kitchen door, quietly, slowly, closing behind her,
sealing her off from the rest of the house.

Tatum stumbles to the refrigerator and throws it open.  Its light
casts a glow across her face.

CRASH-BOOM!

Tatum jumps, spinning around just in time to see a cat escape
through a large pet door that's built into the garage door.  She
smiles at her jumpiness.

Tatum loads up with as many beer as her hands will carry and heads
back to the kitchen.

At the kitchen door, she juggles the beer, reaching for the knob.
It's locked.

                TATUM
        SHIT!

She KICKS it with her foot several times.

                TATUM
        Hey, Shitheads!

A moment.  No answer.

                TATUM
        OH, SHIT PISS!

Tatum leans over and, with her elbow, hits the garage door button.
BRRRMM!  It begins to rise.

She moves towards the rising door, beer in hand.  Suddenly, CRR-
BRRRM!  The garage door RESETS, reversing direction, moving down,
closing.

                TATUM
        What the...

Tatum spins around to see..

A GHOST MASKED FIGURE

Silhouetted in the dark, next to the kitchen door, his hand on the
switch.  Tatum at once GASPS, taken back, but then relaxes.

                TATUM
        Is that you, Randy? Cute.

The FIGURE stares at her, blankly.

                TATUM
        And what movie is this from? I SPIT ON
        YOUR GARAGE.

Tatum takes a step towards the FIGURE.

                TATUM
        Lose the mask. If Sidney sees it, she'll
        flip.

The FIGURE shakes his head slowly from side to side.

                TATUM
        Oh, you wanna play psycho killer?

The FIGURE slowly nods.

                TATUM
        Can I be the helpless victim?

The FIGURE slowly nods again.

                TATUM
        Okay, let's see. "No, please don't kill
        me, Mr. Ghostface. I want to be in the
        sequel."

Tatum takes a step to move around the FIGURE, but he steps too,
blocking her.

                TATUM
        Cut, Casper. That's a wrap.

Tatum moves again, sidestepping the FIGURE, but he's faster and
cuts her off.

Tatum juggles the beer against her chest with one hand and with
the other pushes the FIGURE hard, knocking him aside.

                TATUM
        Randy--will you stop?

But as the FIGURE intercepts, lunging forward, grabbing her wrist
hard, Tatum stumbles...beer cans hit the floor, spewing...

                TATUM
        You little shit.

Tatum yanks hard, releasing his hold when a flash of silver
catches her eye.  She looks down, glimpsing a long sharp blade as
it darts forward, cutting into her forearm...

Tatum pulls back, horrified, as the moment turns deadly serious.

The FIGURE advances on her--knife out, ready.  She staggers
backwards, holding her bloody arm, backing into the refrigerator,
SCREAMING.

                TATUM
        Who are you?

The FIGURE lashes out with the knife.  Tatum dodges it, leaping
back against the fridge.  The FIGURE advances.  Instinctively, she
rips the top freezer door open, BASHING the FIGURE in the face,
sending him backwards, reeling.

Tatum bolts to the...CLOSED GARAGE DOOR.  In a panic, she BEATS
and PULLS
on it, trying to make it lift.  She eyes the FIGURE...he's
recovering...

She goes for the pet door, dropping to the floor, diving for
it...she wedges her upper body through, her head, shoulders, torso
just as the...

FIGURE pounces, grabbing hold of her feet.  Tatum goes crazy
SCREAMING and KICKING trying to get through.

EXT.  GARAGE DOOR

Tatum is half in/half out of the pet door.  She BEATS and JERKS
wildly, unable to see the FIGURE on the other side...

A true fighter, Tatum kicks hard, making direct contact with the
FIGURE, knocking him away.

She takes the moment to pull herself through further...but she
stops...stuck.  She pulls and tugs but can't move.  She listens
but hears nothing.  Where did he go?  An agonizing silence.  And
then...

CRR-BRRRM!  The garage door is activated.  It begins to rise
upward, taking
Tatum with it.  She SCREAMS MADLY.

                TATUM
        NOOOOOOOO.....

Tatum's arms and legs fly about violently as she tries to free
herself from the door, but it moves too fast, carrying her up...

She looks above to see where the door rolls back into garage
rafters just as her neck hits the first beam, SNAPPING instantly.

INT.  FOYER - MINUTES LATER

It's getting late and SOME KIDS leave through the front door,
muttering, "parents and curfew", etc.  The door hangs open wide.
Sid moves to close it when....

BILLY appears in a classic fake scare.

                SIDNEY
        Billy? Jesus, you scared me.

Stu appears.

                STU
            (with a wink)
        Dude. What are you doing here?

                BILLY
        I was hoping Sid and I could talk.

                SIDNEY
        If Tatum sees you--she'll draw blood.

                STU
        You guys can go up to my parents room?
        To talk and...whatever.

                BILLY
        Subtlety, Stu. Look it up.

                SIDNEY
        It's okay. We need to talk.

Sid grabs his hand and leads him up the staircase.  Randy appears
from the kitchen just in time to see Sid and Billy disappear
upstairs.

                RANDY
        What's Leatherface doing here?

                STU
        He came to make up.

                RANDY
        There goes my chance with Sid.

                STU
        Like you had one.

INT.  NEWSVAN

Kenny fidgets at the control board.  He hits a coupla buttons,
bangs the side of the monitor and a picture emerges...the living
room.  The camera is positioned just above the television...

ON SCREEN

The party is in full swing.  Several TEENS sit right in front of
the television.  Because of the camera's position they appear to
be staring right into the lens.

Suddenly, the van's side door slides open and Gale pops in.

                KENNY
        Got a picture. Perfect placement. We
        can see everything.

Gale is ecstatic.

                GALE
        Tell me, Kenny, has a cheesy tabloid
        journalist ever won the Pulitzer?

INT.  BEDROOM

A large, master bedroom with glass doors that lead out onto a
balcony.

Sid and Billy stare at each other for a long moment.  Awkward.

                SIDNEY
        So...

                BILLY
        So...I'm sorry. I've been a selfish shit
        and I'm sorry.

                SIDNEY
        No, Billy. I'm the one who's been
        selfish and self-absorbed with all of my
        post traumatic stress.

                BILLY
        You lost your mom...

                SIDNEY
        But you're right--enough is enough. I
        can't wallow in the grief process forever
        and I can't keep lying to myself about
        who my mom was.

Billy bows his head quietly, knowingly.

                SIDNEY
        I think in some weird analytical,
        psychological bullshit way I'm scared
        I'm gonna turn out just like her, you
        know? Like the bad seed or something...

                BILLY
        Oh Sidney...

                SIDNEY
        Everytime I get close to you I see my
        mom. I know it doesn't make sense.

                BILLY
        Sure it does. It's like Jodie Foster in
        SILENCE OF THE LAMBS when she
        kept having flashbacks of her dead father.

                SIDNEY
        But this is life. This isn't a movie.

                BILLY
        Sure it is, Sid. It's all a movie. Life's
        one great big movie. Only you can't
        pick your genre.

Billy moves to her.  They embrace, tenderly.

                SIDNEY
        I wanna let go. I do...

                BILLY
        Ssshh...everything's gonna be okay. I
        promise.

Sidney takes the initiative, acting on impulse, kissing him long
and hard.  She breaks away passionately, out of breath.

                SIDNEY
        Why can't I be a Meg Ryan movie?

Billy nibbles her neck.

                BILLY
        Sshh..it's okay.

                SIDNEY
        Or even a good porno.

                BILLY
            (shocked)
        What?

She stares at him, her eyes sexually charged.

                SIDNEY
        You heard me.

                BILLY
            (incredulous)
        Are you serious?

                SIDNEY
            (surprising herself)
        Yeah...I think so.

They smile at each other.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - MINUTES LATER

The camera sits on the book shelf lodged between two knickknacks,
completely inconspicuous. The CAMERA WIDENS to reveal several
TEENS watching the TV--the horror diehards.

                TEEN #1
        Look, here it comes. SPLAT!

                TEEN #2
        The blood's not the right color. Why do
        they do that? It's too red.

                RANDY
        Here comes another...

                TEEN #3
        Predictable. Knew he was going to bite
        it.

                BORED TEEN
        How can you watch this shit over and
        over?

                RANDY
        Shhhhh.

                STU
        I wanna see Jamie Lee's breasts. When do
        we see Jamie Lee's breasts?

                RANDY
        Not until TRADING PLACES in '83. Jamie
        Lee was always the virgin in horror movies.
        She didn't show her tits until she went legit.

                BOY TEEN
        No way.

                RANDY
        That's why she always lived. Only
        virgins can outsmart the killer in the
        big chase scene in the end. Don't you
        know the rules?

Stu finishes his beer.

                STU
        What rules?

Randy hits the pause button on the remote and stands in front of
the television, explaining.

                RANDY
        There are certain rules that one must
        abide by in order to successfully survive
        a horror movie. For instance: 1. You
        can never have sex. The minute you get a
        little nookie--you're as good as gone.
        Sex always equals death. 2. Never drink
        or do drugs. The sin factor. It's an
        extension of number one. And 3. Never,
        ever, ever, under any circumstances, say
        "I'll be right back."

                STU
        Wanna another beer?

                RANDY
        Yeah.

                STU
        I'll be right back.

Everybody "ooohhs".

                RANDY
        There he goes folks--a dead man. Wave
        bye-bye.

INT.  NEWSVAN - CONTINUOUS

Gale and Kenny watch the monitor.  The party is clearing out some

A RAP at the van door.  Gale pulls it open to see Deputy Riley
standing, his face all smiles.

                DEWEY
        Sheriff just radioed me. I'm gonna check
        out a possible lead. Thought you might
        like to join me.

                GALE
        What kind of lead?

                DEWEY
        A car was spotted in the bushes a little
        ways up the road.

                GALE
        I'd love to. If you're sure it's
        alright?

                DEWEY
        Ma'am, I am the Deputy of this town.

                GALE
        Can I bring Kenny?

                DEWEY
            (too quickly)
        NO! I mean...I should probably take just
        you.

Gale steps out of the van turning back to Kenny.

                GALE
        I'll be back.

She slides the van door closed.

EXT.  ROAD - CONTINUOUS

Gale heads for Dewey's patrol jeep.

                DEWEY
        Actually, I thought we could walk. It's
        not far.

Gale appears skeptical, but smiles anyway.  She's genuinely
smitten by this young guy.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

SCARY MUSIC fills the room.  The party is reduced to the diehards
in front of the television.

                RANDY
            (pointing to TV)
        Look, here comes the obligatory tit shot.

                OTHER GUYS
        Beautiful! Finally!

INT.  BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Billy and Sidney are going at it...passionately.  He has his head
buried in her neck.

                SIDNEY
            (to herself)
        "Eight is enough to fill our lives with
        love..."

It's working.  Sidney pushes Billy off her as she pulls her shirt
over her head.  She fumbles with the clasp of her bra as the...

CAMERA RUSHES IN on her breasts.  Just as Sid's bra straps slide
of her shoulders...

Billy moves in front of the CAMERA, pulling his jeans off,
Blocking Sidney from view.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - SECONDS LATER

Back in the living room, the horror fest continues when the phone
RINGS.  Everyone ignores it.  It RINGS again.

Finally, Randy grabs the receiver from the side table.

                RANDY
        Hello? Yeah....HOLY SHIT.

Randy, freaked, drops the phone, finds the TV remote and pauses
the movie, the others protest
"Hey, Put is back..." etc.

                RANDY
        Listen up. They found Principal Himbry
        dead. He was gutted and hung from the
        goal post on the football field.

This stills the room.  Complete silence as the news sinks in.  ON
different faces...a moment of devastation..disbelief.  And then:

                TEEN #1
        So what are we waiting for?

                TEEN #2
        Let's get over there before they pry him
        down.

And in seconds the room is empty as everyone bolts for the
door..HOOTIN' and HOLLERIN' ...leaving Randy, near drunk, alone in
the living room.  He returns to the movie.

                RANDY
        We were just getting to the good part.

INT.  NEWSVAN - MINUTES LATER

Kenny is barely watching the monitor, he reached boredom some time
ago.  He finds a bag of Cheetos and chows down when he hears
SCREAMING from outside.  He peers out the window to see the last
of the PARTY KIDS pile into two cars and race off down the road.

He chews a Cheeto slowly, his interest piqued.

INT.  BEDROOM - MINUTES LATER

The sex is over...and both Sid and Billy are dressing
respectively.  That post-sex awkwardness.

Sid brushes out her hair as her eyes come to rest on the telephone
on the nightstand...it puzzles her as a stark reveleation crosses
her face.  She turns to Billy who sits on the floor, putting on
his shoes.

                SIDNEY
        Who did you call?

                BILLY
        What?

                SIDNEY
        When you're arrested-you're allowed one
        phone call? Who did you call?

                BILLY
        I called my dad.

                SIDNEY
        No, Sheriff Burke called your dad. I saw
        him.

                BILLY
        Yeah...and when I called no one answered.

                SIDNEY
        Uh-huh.

                BILLY
        You don't still think it was me?

                SIDNEY
        No, but if it were you, that would have
        been a very clever way to throw me off
        track. Using your one phone call to call
        me so I wouldn't think it was you.

Billy stands up.

                BILLY
        What do I have to do to prove to you I'm
        not a killer?

He makes a move toward her when..from behind, in a split instant,
from the open balcony doors comes...

THE GHOST FIGURE

Sidney sees the FIGURE immedietely, SCREAMING.  Billy tries to
calm her, oblivious to the advancing GHOST.

                SIDNEY
        BILLYWATCHOUT!!!!

Billy barely turns as a long steely blade rises high in the air.
It strikes down with force...hitting his chest as blood sprays the
air.

ON SIDNEY as red crimson splatters across her face...as the knife
is thrust in and out of Billy who tries hard to put up a
fight..but it's useless...he never had a chance.  His body falls
to the floor..lifeless.

ANGLE ON GHOST

as he watches Billy's body come to a still before quietly, calmly
turning his attention to...

SIDNEY who stands, numb...scared to death.  And only when the
GHOST takes a step forward does Sidney break.  She takes off like
a rocket...leaping over the bed and out the door.

INT.  HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Sidney tears out the door and down the hall, coated in Billy's
blood.

ANGLE ON THE GHOST

as he catches up with her, grabbing hold of her collar.  She pulls
away from him...her shirt ripping down the back.

Her hands find a door knob and she goes for it, pulling the door
open...moving quickly inside...locking it behind her.

INT.  DARK SPACE - CONTINUOUS

Total darkness.  Sidney's hands scour the wall for a light switch.
The doorknob turns...the lock holds..as the door is nearly SHAKEN
from it's hinges...and then...

NOTHING.  All goes silent.  Only Sidney's rapid BREATHING fills
the space around her.

Sidney, trembling, shaking, reaches above her, feeling, until she
finds a string.  She pulls it...as a lightbulb SWITCHES on
overhead.

She's in a small box of a room.  The door is on one side, a small,
narrow staircase on the other.  She eyes the doorknob, then the
staircase...contemplating...but it's an easy decision.  There's no
fucking way she's going up to the attic.

She unlocks the door and pushes on it.  But it won't give...she
pushes on it again.  It's locked from the other side.  Shit.  She
turns to the staircase.

EXT.  DARK ROAD - CONTINUOUS

A long, deserted country road.  In the distance, a single
flashlight beams ahead, the only light in the black night.  Gale
and Dewey can be heard.

                GALE
        So is Dewey your real name?

                DEWEY
        Dwight. Dewey was something I got stuck
        with a long time ago.

                GALE
        I like it. It's... sexy.

                DEWEY
        Nah... it's just this town's way of not
        taking me serious.

                GALE
        What about Gale Weathers? I sound like a
        meteorologist...

CLOSE ON Gale and Dewey, walking closely, side by side-
flirtatiously.  Gale is surprisingly nervous.

                GALE
        People treat me like the Antichrist of
        television journalism.

                DEWEY
        I don't think you're so bad.

Gale smiles.

                GALE
        Are all the local boys as sweet as you?

Dewey blushes.  He starts to say something when headlights appear
behind them.  They both spin as TWO CARS loaded with KIDS come
racing right at them.

Dewey grabs Gale and pushes her off the road... just as the cars
speed by, oblivious to them.

IN THE DITCH

Gale lands face up with Dewey right on top of her.  He steals a
glance in her eyes before rolling off her.

                DEWEY
        You okay?

Something takes Gale's attention.

                GALE
        What's that?

Dewey looks to where gale points.  He finds the flashlight and
aims it into the bush.  The tail end of a car is just visible.

                DEWEY
        Looks like a car.

Dewey helps her up and they move to it.  He shines the flashlight
on the plates but it's already obvious to the CAMERA.  This is the
same car we last saw Sidney's father driving away in.

                DEWEY
        Shit. It's Neil Prescott's car.

                GALE
        Sidney's father?

                DEWEY
        We gotta get back. Jesus. He's here.
        What the fuck is he doing here?

Dewey is panicked.  He grabs Gale and they race off down the road.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Randy continues to watch TV.  He is now sloppy drunk, completely
involved in the movie on the screen.

SCARY MUSIC SWELLS, filling the room.

                RANDY
            (to TV)
        No, Jamie. Look behind you! Watch out!
        Behind you!

And if he followed his own advice, he would see the GHOST MASKED
FIGURE that stands directly behind him...knife poised.

INT.  NEWSVAN - CONTINUOUS

Kenny finishes off a soda and crushes the can in his hand.  He
tosses it to the floor when a movement from the monitor catches
his eye.

ON THE MONITOR is Randy, still on the couch, engrossed in the
movie.  Directly behind him...the GHOST.  Kenny does a double-
take.  No fucking way.  He watches as the GHOST stands still,
unmoving, knife raised.

                KENNY
        JESUS...FUCK...

The GHOST takes a silent step forward.

                KENNY
            (screaming at the monitor)
        BEHIND YOU! LOOK BEHIND YOU!

This kid needs help.  Kenny bolts out of his seat and goes for the
side door.  He slides it open and sticks his head out as...

A LONG, SHARP BLADE

comes at Kenny, fast and furious...slicing into his throat.  Kenny
falls forward...out the door as the GHOST MASKED FIGURE is upon
him.

THE CAMERA PANS TO THE MONITOR

just in time to see the GHOST MASKED FIGURE turn away from Randy,
leaving him unharmed, moving instead, out the front door, on a
thirty second walk to the newsvan.

INT.  ATTIC - CONTINUOUS

The attic is long and narrow...cluttered with furniture, boxes,
and the likes...moonlight filters in through a small raised window
on the front wall of the house.

Sidney moves through the attic...BUMPING into this, KNOCKING over
that...she passes a dusty mirror, jumping at her own reflection.
She cringes at her image, drenched in Billy's blood.  She stares
long and hard...something about the blood, the redness of it.  She
moves on, determined.

She eyes the raised window above her...a way out...if she could
only reach it...

EXT.  FRONT YARD

Gale and Dewey come running up the drive, frantic.

                DEWEY
        I'll call for backup.

                GALE
        I'll get my camera.

They split up.  The CAMERA FOLLOWS GALE as she rushes to the
newsvan, throwing open the door.

                GALE
        Kenny! Camera! Quick!

The van is empty.

                GALE
        Kenny?

A CAR HORN goes off.  Gale spins around.  It came from the patrol
jeep in the driveway.

                GALE
            (calling out)
        Dewey?

She moves across the yard to the jeep, the door hangs open...Dewey
is nowhere to be found.

                GALE
        Dewey? Where are you?

A look of pure dread comes over Gale.

INT.  ATTIC - CONTINUOUS

Sidney has stacked object after object building a ladder to the
window.  She climbs to the top, holding onto the window frame.

She spots Gale almost immedietely.  She SCREAMS OUT, looking for
the window latch.  But there's not one.  It doesn't open.  Sidney
starts beating on it...trying to break it...

EXT.  FRONT DOOR - CONTINUOUS

Gale, hanging tough, approaches the front door, unable to hear
Sidney's SCREAMS three floors up.  Gale reaches for the door just
as she hears LOUD, HORRIBLE SHRIEKS from just inside.  She backs
away.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

AN EAR-CURDLING JAMIE LEE CURTIS SCREAM BLASTS through the empty
living room as the horror movie on TV comes to it's horrifying
climax.

Randy is now gone.

EXT.  FRONT YARD - CONTINUOUS

Gale races across the yard putting distance between her and the
house.  She moves back to the van...

INT.  ATTIC - CONTINUOUS

Sidney has found an old tennis racket.  She swings a solid
forehand at the window.

THE WINDOW SPRAYS GLASS

Sidney moves quickly, lifting herself up over broken glass and
pulling herself through the window frame.

EXT.  SIDE OF THE HOUSE

Sidney wastes no time.  She looks for Gale, SCREAMING, but Gale is
gone.

Sid lowers herself down the ledge, sliding down a sloped portion
of the roof onto...

THE MASTER'S BEDROOM BALCONY.

Then she eases herself over the railing and lowers herself,
letting herself hang as low as she can...then she lets go, free-
falling the rest of the way...but in a split instant...

THE GHOST APPEARS

grabbing her wrists in midair.

Her body hangs, dangling against the side of the house.  The GHOST
begins to lift her, pulling her back onto the balcony.

Sidney jerks, pulls, twists...but the HANDS have her, hoisting her
up...Sidney SCREAMS MADLY...yanking one last time, freeing
herself.

SHE DROPS TO THE GROUND, a good seven feet, landing on her back,
hitting hard.  She grabs at a pained leg and brings herself
upright.

INT.  NEWSVAN - CONTINUOUS

Gale is frantic.  She starts the engine up and hits the headlights
when she discovers she can't see out of the windshield.

Gale rubs at the glass.  Sure enough, something is on the
windshield outside, blocking her sight.  Gale hits the wipers as
BLOOD SMEARS across the glass, it drips down from above.

Gale SCREAMS as a HAND reaches in through the open window...she
looks up to see...

RANDY, staring at her madly.

                RANDY
        What's going on?

A sheer moment of fear as Gale hits the gas plummeting the car
forward, into a ditch.  She hits the BRAKES.  Randy is thrown
forward, away from the van.

Gale reverses, backs up, hits the brakes again...just as Kenny's
face comes sliding down the outside of the windshield...eyes wide,
face distorted, blood everywhere.

Gale hits the gas, and yanks the wheel, sending Kenny's corpse
flying off the top of the van.

Gale spins the van around, onto the road, hits the gas madly,
gaining speed just as...

SIDNEY APPEARS

in the middle of the road, drenched in blood, very much resembling
a young Sissy Spacek.

Gale swerves to miss her, but she turns too sharp and the van
veers off the road at top speed...flipping over on its side,
sliding off into the thick foliage.

EXT.  ROAD - CONTINUOUS

Sidney races to where the van lay on it's side.  Sidney peers
through the windshield...Gale's body lay limp and bloody.

SIDNEY CRIES OUT, turning, limping to the driveway.  She sees the
patrol jeep with it's open door...she goes for it.

INT.  JEEP

Sidney hops in, reaches for the ignition...NO KEYS!  Shit.  Just
then, Sidney's eyes go to the front porch.  She watches as the
front door opens and a FIGURE appears in the darkness,
undetectable.

Sidney throws the headlights...illuminating the front side of the
house, revealing...

DEWEY STANDING IN THE DOORWAY.

                SIDNEY
        DEWEY!

Sidney opens the jeep door, moving to him, noticing his body,
slumped, knees buckled...

And then his body falls forward, slowly, deliberately, hitting the
porch hard.  Standing behind him is...

THE GHOST

SIDNEY SCREAMS FROM THE BOTTOM OF HER SOUL.

                SIDNEY
        NOOOOOOOO!!!!!

Sid jumps back inside the jeep, closing the door, locking it.  She
reaches over and locks the passenger's door and then she...waits.

And watches as the GHOST leans over Dewey's still body, fumbling
with something.  Then the FIGURE stands upright, in his hands he
holds...

THE KEYS

They jingle in the wind, the GHOST toying with her, enjoying
this...

Sidney, hysterical, locks eyes with the FIGURE as he moves to the
door, Sidney leaps on it, holding the lock button down, making it
impossible to unlock.  Her face is pressed against the
glass...inches from the MASKED FIGURE.

She uses every ounce of strength when suddenly, the GHOST
DISAPPEARS, dropping down, below the window, out of her view.

Sidney moves to the center of the jeep, trying hard to listen over
her own RAPID BREATHING, every sound AMPLIFIED.

Then she hears it, the soft JINGLING of keys near the passengers
side door.  She pounces on the lock, holding it down.

A shadow cuts the beam of the headlights, unseen by Sidney.  The
lock turns on the other side.  Sidney leaps over and holds it
down, securing it.  This is beyond nerve-racking.  Sidney is
certifiable.

Her eyes spot the police radio for the first time.  She grabs the
mouthpiece and hits the switch.

                SIDNEY
        Help! Please! I'm at Stu Maker's house
        on Turner Lane. Please, HE'S GONNA
        KILL ME!

EXT.  FRONT OF JEEP

ANGLE through front windshield.  Sidney RANTING into the police
band.  She doesn't see the...

GHOST FIGURE open the tailgate door of the jeep and slowly crawl
in behind her.

The GHOST FIGURE reaches out and grabs hold of Sidney's neck.

Sidney, with surprising strength, spins around and attacks the
GHOST.

She falls back against the dash, legs out, kicking wildly at him.

Her hand reaches for the door, finds the lock, the door lever, she
pulls...

The door swings open...

Sidney falls out of the door, hitting the ground.

EXT.  FRONT YARD - CONTINUOUS

Sidney, on her stomach, squirms away from the jeep.  She brings
herself up to her hands and knees, looking behind her to see
nothing...

THE GHOST HAS DISAPPEARED.

Sidney's eyes roam the yard but he's nowhere.  Completely gone.
Vanished.  Sid crawls to the front porch where...

DEWEY'S BODY LAY

Thinking quickly, precisely, she reaches to Dewey's holster and
grabs his gun when a VOICE ECHO'S behind her...

                VOICE
            (o.c.)
        Sidney!

She turns to see Randy racing to her, limping.  He appears stone
cold sober.

                RANDY
        Jesus, Sid. We gotta get out of here.

Sidney throws the gun forward.

                SIDNEY
        Stop. Right there.

                RANDY
        Don't shoot. It's me.

                SIDNEY
        Don't come any closer.

                RANDY
        Listen to me, Sid. I found Tatum. She's
        dead, she's been killed...I think Stu did
        it.

He takes a step forward when another VOICE SPEAKS UP.

                VOICE
            (o.c.)
        Don't believe him, Sid.

Sidney spins around to see Stu moving up the walk.

                STU
        He's lying. He killed Tatum. And Billy.

Stu moves closer to Sidney.

                SIDNEY
        Stay away.

She aims the gun in his direction.

                STU
        His movie nut mind has snapped, Sid.
        He's gone psycho.

                RANDY
        Don't listen to him. It's him. He's the
        one.

Sidney has lost it, she doesn't know who to trust.  She aims the
gun at Stu..then Randy..then Stu...

                STU
        Come on, Sid. Give me the gun.

                RANDY
        No, Sid.

They both move toward her.  There's no time.  She must act now.
Finally...

                SIDNEY
        Fuck you both.

And with that, Sidney steps back into the house and SLAMS the
front door shut.

INT.  LIVING ROOM / FOYER

Sid locks and bolts the door.  From the other side she can hear
Randy SCREAMING.

                RANDY
        NO, SID. OPEN UP. PLEASE...
        HE'S GONE CRAZY.

His fists POUND against the door.  Sidney, stumbling in the
darkness, rushes to the phone in the living room.  Just as she
reaches for it...it RINGS.  It scares the life out of her.  She
SCREAMS, yanking it up.

                SIDNEY
        Please! God! Help me!

                VOICE
            (from the phone)
        Having fun Sidney?

Sidney falls apart, SCREAMING.

                SIDNEY
        NOOOOOOOOO!!!

She throws the phone down, disconnecting the call.

Sid moves back to the door.  RANDY'S SCREAMS ARE MADDENING.  She
eyes the lock, deliberating.

                SIDNEY
            (at the door)
        GOAWAYLEAVEMEALONE!

CLUNK!  A NOISE UPSTAIRS.

Sidney looks up the staircase, into the darkness, her face SHOCKED
to see...

BILLY

emerging from the shadows, stumbling down the stairs.  Very much
alive.

                SIDNEY
        Oh God. Billy!

He's blood-soaked and dazed.  Sidney meets him in the landing,
grabbing him, holding him...

                SIDNEY
        I thought you were...

                BILLY
        I'm alright. Gotta...get...help.

Billy goes for the door.

                SIDNEY
        He's out there.

Randy continues POUNDING ON THE DOOR, SCREAMING AT THE TOP OF HIS
LUNGS.

                RANDY
            (through door)
        Please, you gotta let me in. He's
        gonna kill me.

Billy goes for the door.  Sidney blocks him.

                SIDNEY
        NO! Don't believe him.

                BILLY
        It's okay. Give me the gun.

Sidney hands him the gun.  Billy turns and unlocks the door,
opening it.  Randy rushes in, grabbing Billy, pleading...

                RANDY
        Help me...

                BILLY
            (calming him)
        Shhhh. It's okay.

                RANDY
        Stu's flipped out. He's gone mad.

Slowly, a small smile creeps across Billy's face.

                BILLY
        "We all go a little mad sometimes."

Randy squints, confused, as Billy aims the gun at Randy and pulls
the trigger.  The BLAST throws Randy's body against the wall
before sliding to a heap on the floor...still.

                BILLY
        Anthony Perkins--PSYCHO

BILLY TURNS TO SIDNEY...

Who stands only feet away, face aghast...

Fuck, no...this can't be happening.  Billy's eyes are on her,
unmoving.

He sticks his tongue out and slowly licks the blood dried to his
face...tasting it.

                BILLY
        Corn syrup. Same stuff they used for
        pig's blood in CARRIE.

Sidney is dumbfounded.  Slowly, she takes a step back, moving into
the dark refines of the kitchen.

Billy, lurches forward in a fake-out, baiting her.  She takes
another step back--petrified.

CLOSE ON BILLY'S FACE.  It is no longer familiar to Sidney.  There
is something inhuman now about his features.  His expression is
pure evil.

She takes another step back, shrinking into the dark kitchen.

THE CAMERA TAKES A MOMENT TO ADJUST TO THE DARKNESS as the outline
of a FIGURE appears...

STANDING RIGHT BEHIND SIDNEY.

She continues to back up, moving right into the arms of...

STU

Sidney spins around...her mouth open in speechless horror.

                SIDNEY
        Stu...please...help me...

Stu stares back at her, eyes wide, lips curled in a subtle smile
as he holds a small compact CELLULAR PHONE up to his face.

                STU
            (whispering into phone)
        Surprise, Sidney.

His VOICE sounds affected now...the VOICE of the killer.

Sidney looks back to Billy, then to Stu, then to Billy again.  It
becomes all too clear.

She stands between them, her mind racing, calculating...

SHE BOLTS INTO THE LIVING ROOM

If for no other reason than to put space between her and
them...they stand in the entryway, trapping her in.

                BILLY
        Where ya going? It's not over yet. We've
        got one more surprise--Stu, I believe it's
        your turn.

                STU
        Oh yeah

Stu disappears into the kitchen.

                BILLY
            (to Sidney)
        What's wrong? You look like you've seen
        a ghost.

Sidney stands, trying hard to hold a calm resolve.

A NOISE comes from the kitchen.  A low dragging sound.  Stu
reappears from the front hall...wrestling with
something...someone...

CLOSE ON STU...he has a body in tow, he thrusts it forward and it
rolls into the living room.  Sidney looks down to find...

HER FATHER

bound and gagged.  His eyes wide in fear, very much alive.

                SIDNEY
        Daddy!

She starts for him.

                BILLY
        Close enough.

Stu places the cellular phone in Mr. Prescott's shirt pocket.

                STU
        Guess, I won't be needing this anymore.

                SIDNEY
        Why are you doing this?

                STU
        It's all part of the game.

                BILLY
        It's called GUESS HOW I'M GOING TO DIE!

                SIDNEY
        Fuck you.

                BILLY
        We already played that game. You lost,
        remember?

                STU
        You have to play, Sid. Don't want to
        disappoint your dad. He's been waiting
        around all night.

                BILLY
        It's an easy game. We ask you a
        question. If you get it wrong--you die.

                STU
        And if you get it right--you die.

                SIDNEY
        You're crazy--both of you.

                STU
        The official term is "psychotic".

                SIDNEY
        You'll never get away with this.

                BILLY
        Tell that to Cotton Weary. You wouldn't
        believe how easy it was to frame him.

                STU
        Yeah, we just watched a few movies. Took
        a few notes. It was fun.

Billy and Stu relish their madness, proud of themselves.

Sidney looks to her dad, sees the tears in his eyes.  She looks
back to Billy, unflinching..a determined look on her face.

                SIDNEY
        Why did you kill my mother?

                BILLY
        Why? WHY? Did you hear that, Stu? I
        think she wants a motive. Hmmm...I don't
        really believe in motives, Sid. I mean, did
        Norman Bates have a motive?

Stu plays along, shaking his head.

                STU
        Nope.

                BILLY
        And did they really ever explain why
        Hannibal Lecter liked to eat people?
        Don't think so. You see, it's scarier
        when there's no motive, Sid.

                SIDNEY
            (fighting tears)
        I don't understand...

                BILLY
        We did your mom a favor, Sid. The woman
        was a slut bag whore who flashed her shit
        all over town like she was Sharon Stone or
        something.

                STU
            (laughing)
        ..so we put her out of her misery. I
        mean, let's face it, your mom was no
        Sharon Stone.

Stu cracks up over this while Billy turns very serious.

                BILLY
        Is that motive enough for you? Or how
        about this? Did you know your slut
        mother was sleeping with my dad and she's
        the reason my mom moved out and deserted
        me.

A sudden silence.  Sidney is rigid with shock, his words resonant
with truth.

                SIDNEY
        What?

Even Stu is surprised with his seriousness.

                BILLY
        Think about it. On the off chance I get
        caught-a motive like that could divide a
        jury for years, don't you think?. You took
        my mother, so I took yours. Big sympathy
        factor. Maternal abandonment causes
        serious deviant behavior. It certainly
        fucked you up. It made you have sex with
        a psychopath.

                STU
        That's right and now that you're no
        longer a virgin. You gotta die--those
        are the rules.

Billy sits the gun down on the table near the foyer.  And then
moves to Sidney with the butcher knife in hand.

                BILLY
        Pretend this is all just a scary movie,
        Sid. How do you think it's going to end?

Sidney doesn't respond.

                STU
            (excited)
        This is the best part, Sid. Billy's got
        it all figured out. Why do you think we
        kept your father alive so long? Why did
        we save you for last?

                BILLY
        You know what time it is, Sid? It's
        after midnight. It's your mother's
        anniversary. We killed her exactly one
        year ago today.

Billy turns to Stu with the knife.  They eye each other.

                BILLY
        Ready?

                STU
        Yeah...

Billy pulls the knife back and brings it forward quickly, slicing
into Stu.  He stumbles to ho his knees, WINCING in pain.

                STU
        Jesus...

Sidney SCREAMS...as blood gushes..real blood, a dark, deep red.
Stu inspects the wound to his side...then he smiles...

                STU
        Good one. My turn.

He takes the knife from Billy.

                BILLY
        Don't forget-stay to the side and don't
        go too deep.

Stu stabs at Billy's belly, puncturing him...Billy doubles over...

                BILLY
        Jesus...fuck, that hurt.

                SIDNEY
        Stop it!

                BILLY
            (squelching the pain)
        Got the ending figured out yet? Time's
        running out.

                STU
        Come on, Sid. Think about it. Your
        father is the chief suspect. We cloned
        his cellular. The evidence is there.

Billy takes the knife and slashes at Stu's arm, two quick
cuts...he doubles over...

                BILLY
        What if your father snapped? Your mom's
        anniversary set him off and he went on a
        murder spree, killing everyone...

                STU
            (in major pain)
        Except for me and Billy...we were left
        for dead...

                BILLY
        And then he killed you and then shoots
        himself in the head. It's a perfect
        ending.

                STU
        Everyone dies but us. We get to carry on
        and plan the sequel. Let's face it, these
        days--you gotta have a sequel.

Stu takes the knife and cuts at Billy.

                SIDNEY
        You sick fucks--you've seen one too many
        movies.

Billy looks at her, bent over, crazed.

                BILLY
        Oh Sid, don't blame the movies...Movies
        don't create psychos. Movies just make
        psychos more creative.

Stu staggers a bit.

                STU
        That's it, Billy. I can't take any more.
        I'm feeling woozy.

                BILLY
        Get the gun. I'll untie Pops.

Billy moves to Sidney's father.

                STU
        Where'd you put it?

Stu is searching the foyer for the gun.

                BILLY
        It's on the table.

                STU
        No, it's not.

Billy hobbles over.  The gun is gone.

                BILLY
        Where the fuck is it?

                VOICE
            (off camera)
        Right here, asshole.

Billy and Stu look up in unison to see...

GALE WEATHERS-CORRESPONDENT FROM INSIDE STORY

standing in the front door way, gun in hand.  Her body tattered
and bloody.  Her hair a mess.

                BILLY
        I thought she was dead.

                STU
        She looked dead. Still does.

Gale holds the gun firm, in total control.

                GALE
        I've got an ending for you. The reporter
        left for dead in the newsvan comes to,
        stumbles upon you two dipshits, finds the
        gun, fumbles your plan, and saves the day.

Sidney steps forward.

                SIDNEY
        I like that ending.

Billy lunges at Gale, but she holds steady.  Billy and Stu eye
each other.

                BILLY
        She can't get both of us.

                STU
        Odds are--she'll miss anyway.

In a mad rush, they storm Gale, heading straight at her.  She
pulls the trigger, but nothing happens...the safety is on.

Billy charges forward, grabbing hold of the front door, SLAMMING
IT SHUT.  It catches Gale in the face, knocking her backwards out
the door.  She goes down...out.

                STU
        Cool move.

Billy steps out the front door and retrieves the gun from where
Gale lays.  Then he turns back inside the house to find...

SIDNEY GONE.

                BILLY
        Where'd she go?

Stu looks around, staggering now, bleeding heavily...Sidney has
completely disappeared.  Only her father, bound and gagged remains
in the living.

                STU
        I don't know Billy but I'm hurtin'.

                BILLY
        Where the fuck did she go?

Suddenly, the phone RINGS.  Billy and Stu look at each other.
Completely surprised.  Billy scrambles over to the phone.

                BILLY
            (picking up phone)
        Hello?

                SIDNEY
            (from phone)
        Are you alone in the house?

Billy looks to Mr. Prescott.  The cellular phone is gone.

                BILLY
        You bitch--where the fuck are you?

                SIDNEY
        Not so fast.  We're gonna play a little
        game. It's called GUESS WHO JUST
        CALLED THE POLICE AND REPORTED
        YOUR SORRY MOTHERFUCKING ASS?

Billy looks around the living room.

                BILLY
        Find her.

Billy is fuming now...slightly staggering...and starting to lose
it.  He SCREAMS at Stu who has fallen to his knees.

                BILLY
        FIND HER YOU DIPSHIT!

                STU
        I can't...I'm bad off, Billy. You cut
        to deep.

Billy throws the phone at Stu.  He mouths to him, so Sid can't
hear.  "Talk to her..."  Then Billy takes off for the kitchen.
Stu takes the phone.

                SIDNEY
            (aware)
        So Stu, what's your motive? Billy's got
        one. The police are on their way. What
        are you going to tell them?

                STU
        Peer pressure...I'm way to sensitive.

Billy flies back in the room, grabbing the phone from Stu.  He's
completely nuts now, staggering, bleeding, totally insane.

                BILLY
            (SCREAMING in phone)
        I'm gonna rip you up bitch. Just like
        your slut whore mother.

                SIDNEY
        Gotta find me first, you pansy-assed
        Mama's boy.

Billy starts ripping the room up, overturning furniture in a mad
fit of rage...when he notices the hall closet.  Touche!  He smiles
deliriously, heading for it, ripping it open as...

A GHOST MASKED FIGURE strikes from within, with an umbrella, the
sharp end hitting him in the chest as it fans out.  Billy stumbles
back, stunned, as the GHOST comes at him again...the umbrella
lodges in his chest, and he goes down.

Sidney rips the GHOST MASK off her head.  She looks at Billy,
disgusted, throwing the mask on Billy's now still body.  A
movement behind her sends her reeling around to find...

RANDY slowly sitting up.  His body drenched in blood.  He's
alive...barely.  He looks to Sidney...through pain...

                RANDY
        You know what I hate most about horror
        movies? The final scene...it just goes on
        and on...and it gets so stupid...

Randy manages to stand when a FIGURE COMES LEAPING at him,
completely unexpected...it's Stu...barreling into him...they fall
back into the living room.  Sidney grabs the gun next to Billy and
turns to the living room to find...

Randy and Stu rolling across the floor in a dead lock, fighting,
both seriously injured...Sid tries to find aim when a...

HAND GRABS HOLD of Sidney's ankle, toppling her to the
floor...once again she finds Billy on top of her...

IN THE LIVING ROOM

Randy and Stu pound at each other, beating and clawing...

ON SIDNEY as she fights viciously, attacking with everything she's
got...

Randy is desperately trying to pry away from Stu...he grabs hold
of the television set and tries to pull himself off the floor out
of Stu's clutch...

His hands find the top of the TV...the VCR...he yanks on it,
gripping it with his hands, bringing it around with force-CRASHING
the VCR into Stu's head.  Stu drops.

ON SIDNEY as she digs her hand into Billy's open chest wound.  He
CRIES OUT BLOODY MURDER.  Her other hand brings the gun up to his
face...but he head bunts it out the front door...suddenly a flash
of silver appears above Sidney.

Billy has grasped the butcher knife...he rises it high above
Sidney ready to strike...when a bullet RIPS THROUGH THE FOYER
striking Billy knocking him back into the living room.

Sidney looks up to see...

GALE WEATHERS, holding the gun in a death grip as smoke rises
above the gun's chamber.

Sidney sits up as Gale moves to her, helping her.  Their eyes
meet.  A life truce.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Billy and Stu lay face up, head to head.  Sid and Gale move over
them, staring down.  Randy joins them.

                RANDY
        Sid, you found me out...I'm a virgin.
        And pretty happy about it right now.

Sidney nudges their bodies.  They both stir.

                RANDY
        Careful. This is the moment when you
        think the killer's dead, but then he
        springs back to life for one last scare.

Sidney grabs the gun from Gale.

                SIDNEY
        Not this time.

She positions her foot on Stu's chest and aims.

                SIDNEY
        This is for my Mom, asshole.

She SHOOTS him in the forehead, a clean and perfect shot.  The she
aims the barrel at Billy who's eyes suddenly open, blinking up at
her, blood bubbling from his lips.  He's not yet dead.  Their eyes
lock.

                SIDNEY
        And this Billy stud-bucket is for having
        an incredibly small weenie.

She FIRES another perfect shot.  They're both goners.

Sidney drops the smoking gun, standing silent over the bodies.  A
quiet moment when suddenly...

A FIGURE LUNGES AT THEM

Both Sid and Gale and Randy SCREAM in epic, final scare
proportions as Mr. Prescott leaps forward, still bound and gagged.

Sid catches her breath, relaxing.

                SIDNEY
        Oh Daddy...

She rushes to him, untying him...while Gale moves to the bookcase
and retrieves the hidden camera.

                GALE
        I wanna close-up.

Randy appears by Sidney's side, helping her untie her father.

                RANDY
        This is probably an inappropriate
        moment, but you think you'd want
        to maybe go out with me sometime...
        like on a date?

Sidney looks at him, dumbfounded.

                RANDY
        Maybe catch a movie?

A long moment as Sidney's face goes from disbelief to resignation
to the slight trace of a smile.

                SIDNEY
        Only if it's a nice Meg Ryan movie.

                RANDY
        You got it.

He smiles at her...watching as Sidney grabs hold of her father,
holding him tight as Gale Weathers, with camera in hand, gets one
hell of an ending to this SCARY MOVIE.



                    THE END

