


<b><!--
</b>if (window!= top)
top.location.href=location.href
<b>// -->
</b>
STAR TREK: NEMESIS



















                      STAR TREK: NEMESIS

                              by

                          John Logan

































FADE IN:

INT.  MEDICAL MONTAGE - DAY

Life.  Glorious in its many forms.  The biological pulse
finding its way heroically through the cold manipulation of
science.

CREDITS as we see a beautiful montage of futuristic medical
technology.  Through a microscope we see cells multiplying
and gene strands exponentially increasing with the vibrancy
of exploding flowers.  We see laser splicing and biological
manipulation on the molecular level.

CREDITS continue as we fade to...

INT.  ROMULAN SENATE CHAMBER - NIGHT

Politics... In a cavernous, shadowy chamber.  Dark figures
lean together and talk seriously.  Their hushed, urgent tones
denote the gravity of their discussion.

We can't make out the words but there is no doubt what they
are talking about.

The three year old HUMAN BOY who stands before them.  The boy
is alone and frightened, lost in the sweeping grandeur of
the massive chamber.

CREDITS continue as we fade to...

EXT.  REMAN HOMEWORLD - NIGHT

Labor...

On a stark, desert planet with monolithic mountains and harsh
crags shooting upward.  The only light in this dark
netherworld comes from the flames that accompany the hellish
mining operations everywhere around us.

The human boy gazes over this desolate vista and then he
looks up for a moment... at the stars.

Then a tall figure leads him firmly into one of the mines.
The boy seems to disappear into this flaming crucible.
CREDITS end as we go to...

EXT.  ROMULUS - SUNSET

The sun is setting on the capital city of the great Romulan
Star Empire, The imperial monoliths and martial towers of
this bustling city glow red as the sun dips below the
horizon.

We slowly move down toward the most imposing building of the
city.  The Romulan Senate chamber.

INT.  ROMULAN SENATE CHAMBER - SUNSET

SENATOR TAL'AURA watches the proceedings with a studied look
of bored indifference.  She glances to the familiar Romulan
crest that dominates one wall of the chamber: a ferocious
bird-of-prey holding two planets, one in either claw.

And then her eyes carefully cross the chamber to...

PRAETOR HIREN -- the head of the Romulan government --
presiding over the Senate from a throne-like chair.  He is a
capable politician in his 50s.

                     SENATOR 1
          ... but if we hesitate we'll lose
          this important source of dilithium.
          A trade agreement is in the best
          interests of the Empire.

                     SENATOR 2
          Praetor, I recommend we dispatch a
          diplomatic mission to Celes II to
          open negotiations.

Senator Tal'Aura grunts slightly at the word "negotiations."
Praetor Hiren glances to her.

                     PRAETOR
          Senator Tal'Aura, you disagree with
          the motion.

                     TAL'AURA
          No, sir.  I would say "negotiation"
          is to be advised.  I support all
          "diplomatic" overtures.  But if you
          will excuse me, Praetor, I have an
          appointment with the Tholian
          ambassador.

The Praetor nods.  Tal'Aura stands and leaves the chamber...
but she had left something behind on her desk.  A small,
silver box with unusual etchings on the surface.

The discussion continues as we focus on the silver box...

                     PRAETOR
          Then I will call for a vote on the
          motion to open trade negotiations
          with Celes II...

The Senator at the desk next to Tal'Aura's glances over.  The
silver box is moving.

The Senator watches, amazed, as the box begins to slowly fold
open.  Then "legs" appear.  The box unfolds like a spider,
standing on its legs.  Then it is still for a moment.  The
Senator looks at it, puzzled.

Suddenly -- a bright beam of green light shoots up from the
spider -- the Senators are stunned -- the beam shoots to the
high domed ceiling of the chamber and then cascades around
the interior of the room, enveloping everything in a glowing
shroud of green energy.  In a way, it is bizarrely beautiful.

And then just as suddenly the light disappears.

A moment of silence.  The Praetor and Senators are baffled.

                     PRAETOR
          Would someone please tell me what
          that was?
               (he turns to a guard)
          Alert security --

A plant behind the Praetor begins to shrivel...

                     PRAETOR
          -- and have them run a --

The Praetor stops suddenly -- as the flesh begins to melt
from his face.

Every bit of organic matter in the chamber decays.  Flesh
melts from bones while the Senators scream in agony.  Every
living thing in the chamber is dead within ten seconds.

A stunning moment of silence as we take in the carnage.  Then
a transporter effect ripples around the spider-weapon.  It
disappears.

And the Romulan Senate is no more.  We fade to...

EXT.  EARTH, ALASKA - PAVILION - DAY

JEAN LUC PICARD, the most beloved and respected Captain in
Starfleet.

His face is resolute and set.  Even stern.  His white dress
uniform is buttoned tightly to the neck.

He looks at us evenly and then utters the word that has been
the watch cry for his entire life as a Starfleet officer.

                     PICARD
          Duty...

He lets the word resonate and then continues.

                     PICARD
          A starship captain's life is filled
          with solemn duty.  I have commanded
          men in battle.  I have negotiated
          peace treaties between implacable
          enemies.  I have represented the
          Federation in first contact with
          twenty-seven alien species.  But
          none of this compares to my solemn
          duty as... Best man.

Uproarious laughter.  We pull back to reveal the wedding
reception of WILL RIKER and DEANNA TROI.

The Enterprise CREW is gathered with invited GUESTS, some
from other "Star Trek" series.  Riker and Deanna sit at the
center of a long table.

                     PICARD
          Now, I know that on an occasion
          such as this: it is expected that I
          be gracious and fulsome with praise
          on the wonders of this blessed
          union... But have you two
          considered what you're doing to?
          This is all a damned
          inconvenience...
               (laughter from the crowd)
          While you're happily settling in on
          the Titan, I'll have to train a new
          first officer; no doubt a stern
          martinet who'll quote the rule book
          at me and never... ever... allow me
          to go on away missions.
               (laughter)
          ... Then there's the matter of my
          new counselor.  Undoubtedly some
          soft-spoken, willowy thing who'll
          be probing into my darkest psyche
          as she nods her head and coos
          sympathetically.  Isn't that right,
          Deanna?

Deanna nods her head and coos sympathetically.  Hearty,
wonderful LAUGHTER!

                     PICARD
          I notice Dr. Crusher laughing along
          with the rest of you.  As most of
          you know, the doctor will also soon
          be leaving the Enterprise, to
          assume command of Starfleet
          Medical.  Again, I'm forced to ask,
          Beverly, have you considered what
          you're doing to little ole' me?!
          I'll probably get some old battle-
          axe of a doctor who'll tell me to
          eat my vegetables and put me on
          report if I don't show up for my
          physical on time!

                     BEVERLY
          It'll serve you right.

Laughter, laughter, laughter!  He looks to Riker and Deanna:

                     PICARD
          Really, it's not too late to
          reconsider.  No?  Very well then...

He smiles and raises his glass, looks at them deeply.

                     PICARD
          Will Riker, you have been my
          trusted right arm for fourteen
          years; you have helped keep my
          course true and steady.  Deanna
          Troi, you have been my conscience
          and best guide, the touchstone to
          the better parts of myself.  You
          are my family.  And in proper
          maritime tradition I wish you full
          sails and a clear horizon... My
          friends, make it so.

They drink.

EXT.  EARTH, ALASKA - PAVILION - LATER

The party guests mingle as a band plays.  We are at a
beautiful open-air pavilion high in the Denali Mountains.
The soaring ranges of Riker's native Alaska can be seen
everywhere around us.

DR. BEVERLY CRUSHER goes to Picard.

                     BEVERLY
               (playfully)
          Sort of like losing a son and
          gaining an empath, isn't it?

                     PICARD
          Please, Beverly, this is hard
          enough.

                     BEVERLY
          If you start tearing up I promise
          to beam you out.  Level one medical
          emergency.  There's no crying in
          Starfleet.

They head off toward Riker and Deanna.

Meanwhile, GEORDI LA FORGE sits with his girlfriend.

                     LEAH
          I've never seen your Captain so
          nostalgic.  Maybe he's getting soft
          in his old age.

                     GEORDI
               (laughs)
          Not likely.  After we installed the
          new Series Four replicators, he
          tried to order his usual tea and
          there was a glitch.  Had us remove
          the whole bunch of them and put the
          old ones back in.

                     LEAH
          There!  Nostalgic about old
          replicators.

                     GEORDI
          He just likes things the way he
          likes them...
               (he looks at her, smiles)
          Of course, so do I.

He kisses her gently as WORF comes to them.  Poor Worf is
still suffering a bit from the bachelor party.  He plops down
beside them, belches.

                     WORF
          Romulan ale should be illegal.

                     GEORDI
          It is, old chum.

                     WORF
          Then it should be more illegal.

He groans and rests his head on the table, acts like he's
going to heave.  Meanwhile, Riker and Deanna are talking to
Picard and Beverly.

                     DEANNA
          Really, Captain, it was a lovely
          toast.

                     PICARD
          The least I could do for you,
          Deanna.  Besides, you know me...
          I'm a talking head.

                     DEANNA
          And you needn't worry.  I'll brief
          your new counselor on everything
          she needs to know.

                     PICARD
          The hell you will.  You know too
          much about me as it is... Now you
          promised there are no speeches
          during the ceremony on Betazed.

                     RIKER
          No, no speeches.  No clothes
          either.
               (winks, mischievously)

Picard looks at him.  Deanna laughs.

Then the band stops playing.  All turn.

DATA stands with the band.

                     DATA
          Ladies and Gentlemen and invited
          Tran gendered species... In my
          study of Terran and Betazoid
          conjugal rites I have discovered it
          is traditional to present the
          "happy couple" with a gift.  Given
          Commander Riker's affection for
          archaic musical forms I have
          elected to present the following as
          my gift in honor of their
          conjugation.

Riker shoots an amused glance to Deanna.  Conjugation?

Data turns to the band leader.

                     DATA
          If you please, Mister Band Leader,
          a-one and a-two and...

The band launches into a jaunty, swing version of the Irving
Berlin standard "Blue Skies."

                     DATA
               (sings)
          "Blue skies, smiling at me, Nothing
          but blue skies do I see.  Blue
          birds, singing a song, Nothing but
          blue birds all day long.  Never saw
          the sun shining so bright, Never
          saw things going so right..."

The crowd is appreciative.  Loves the song.  Except Worf, he
momentarily raises his head from the table.

                     WORF
               (groans)
          Ugghhh... Irving Berlin.

His heads thumps down again, is about ready to BARF!
Meanwhile, Riker is anxious as a kid to join the band:

                     DEANNA
               (smiles)
          All right, go ahead.

Riker eagerly joins the band.  Grabs the trombone and starts
jamming with the orchestra.  The song really swings.

                     PICARD
               (to Deanna)
          May I have this dance?

                     DEANNA
          With pleasure, Captain.

Meanwhile, Geordi leads Leah to the dance floor as well.
Beverly goes to Worf.

                     BEVERLY
          Commander Worf... Do Klingons
          swing?

                     WORF
          I am not a swinger.  I am unwell.

                     BEVERLY
          Don't worry, I'm a doctor.

She pulls him to the dance floor as:

                     BEVERLY
          I'm so glad you made it back to the
          Enterprise before I left.

                     WORF
          I was not suited for the life of
          a... diplomat.

                     BEVERLY
               (wry)
          Who'd have guessed?

They dance.  Picard and Deanna sweep past them.

And we pull up and away as Data continues to sing and the
crew dances.  It is a joyous celebration of these people.

This family.  A family we love.

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - SPACE

The Enterprise streaks through space.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - CREW LOUNGE - NIGHT

Data sits in the empty Crew Lounge.

As always, the android's placid, neutral expression still
somehow manages to convey his wonder, curiosity and
idiosyncratic zest for life.

Picard arrives with a very old bottle of wine.

                     PICARD
          I've been saving this.  Chateau
          Picard 2267.  Batten down the
          hatches...

He carefully uncorks the treasured bottle as:

                     PICARD
          They say a vintner's history is in
          every glass.  The soil he came
          from.  His past as well as his
          hopes for the future.

He pours two glasses of the wine, then raises his glass, a
toast.

                     PICARD
          So... To happy endings.

                     DATA
          To happy endings.

Picard carefully takes a tiny sip, savors the flavor, finally
swallows.  Enjoys it.  Ahhh.

Data mimics Picard.  Taking a tiny sip, savoring the flavor
and finally swallowing.  Ahhh.

                     DATA
          Sir.  I noticed an interesting
          confluence of emotion at the
          wedding.  I am familiar with the
          human concept of tears through
          laughter and its inverse, laughter
          through tears, but I could not help
          wondering about the human capacity
          for expressing both pleasure and
          sadness simultaneously.

                     PICARD
          I understand why it would seem
          confusing.  Certain human rituals --
          like weddings, birthdays or
          funerals evoke strong and very
          complex emotions.  These rites
          carry great weight with us because
          they denote the passage of time.

                     DATA
          And you were particularly aware of
          this feeling because Commander
          Riker will be leaving to assume
          command of the Titan?

                     PICARD
          Will and Deanna joining the Titan.
          Dr. Crusher going to Starfleet
          Medical...

                     DATA
          And this makes you "sad"?

                     PICARD
          Well.  I suppose it does a bit.
          I'm very happy for them, of course,
          but I'm going to miss them.  The
          ship will seem... incomplete
          without them.

                     DATA
          That is because you have a
          familiarity with them.  You can
          predict specific reactions and
          behavior and are comfortable in
          that knowledge.

                     PICARD
          Yes.  And, frankly, I envy them as
          well.  They've made important
          choices; they're going to have
          great challenges ahead of them.
          New worlds to conquer...

He takes another sip of wine.  A beat.

                     PICARD
          Seeing Will and Deanna today made
          me think about some of the choices
          I've made in my own life.  Devoting
          myself to Starfleet... Not marrying
          or having children... All the
          choices that led me here.

A beat.  Data thinks about it.

                     DATA
          The choices I made have led me here
          as well.  This is the only home I
          have ever known.  I cannot foresee
          a reason for leaving.

                     PICARD
          You never know what's over the
          horizon, Data.  Before too long
          you'll be offered a command of your
          own.  Data looks at him; he has
          never really considered this.

                     DATA
          If I were... I believe my memory
          engrams would sense the absence of
          your specific reactions and
          behavior.  I would "miss you."

                     PICARD
               (smiles)
          Now, you make a toast.

                     DATA
          To new worlds...

                     PICARD
          New worlds.  Yes Data, brave new
          worlds...

They drink.

INT.  ROMULAN SENATE - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Flickering braziers dimly illuminate the cold, martial
splendor of a Senate corridor.

COMMANDER DONATRA and COMMANDER SURAN stride through the
corridor.

Suran is an elder Romulan officer, respected and tenacious.
Donatra -- a key figure in this story so pay close attention
to her -- is a mature, beautiful woman... not without a dry
sense of humor.

                     SURAN
          The fleet commanders are nervous.
          They've agreed to remain at their
          given coordinates and await his
          orders.  But they're anxious to
          know what's going on here.

                     DONATRA
          I don't blame them.  We can't keep
          them in the dark forever.

A voice, from the shadows:

                     VICEROY (V.O.)
          But in darkness, there is strength.

Donatra and Suran stop.

And the VICEROY steps from the shadows...

He is a terrifying sight  A powerful, monstrous alien
creature; a tall, ashen-skinned ectomorph who bears a
disturbing resemblance to the original Nosferatu.  He is
vampiric and lethal.  He is a Reman.

                     VICEROY
          Don't you agree?

He leads them along the corridor.

INT.  SENATE CHAMBER - NIGHT

We observe the Romulan crest, an imposing bird-of-prey
clutching a planet in either claw, not unlike the KAOS emblem
from "Get Smart," that dominates a wall.  As we hear:

                     SHINZON (V.O.)
          Consider it  The great symbol of
          the Empire... But the bird-of-prey
          holds planets.  Romulus, Remus.
          Their destinies conjoined...

And then we see him... SHINZON!

He is a dynamic young human in his twenties.  Very handsome
with pale, almost white skin and shining, golden hair.  He
wears a striking Reman military uniform.

He stands in the center of the eerily deserted chamber.  The
entire floor is a large star chart.

                     SHINZON
          Yet for generations one of those
          planets has been without a voice.
          We will be silent no longer.

Senator Tal'Aura (the female Senator who planted the weapon
in the Senate chamber earlier) and two other ROMULAN
COMMANDERS sit.

Cadres of Shinzon's fearsome REMAN WARRIORS stand around the
chamber.  They are his sinister children of the night.  Even
more chilling now in the flickering torch light.  It's like
something out of Tim Burton.

Donatra and Suran enter the chamber with Shinzon's Viceroy.

                     SHINZON
          Join us, Commanders.  Now what's
          the disposition of the fleet?

                     SURAN
          They're holding position.

                     SHINZON
          And?

                     SURAN
               (bows his head)
          They will obey, Praetor.

                     SHINZON
          It's imperative we retain their
          allegiance or our great mission
          will be strangled before it can
          truly draw breath.

                     DONATRA
          They support your intentions, sir.
          But they require evidence of
          your... sincerity.

Shinzon looks at her.  A quick beat.  Shinzon decides to
respond with benevolence.  He smiles.

                     SHINZON
          And they'll have it.
               (he begins to pace over
                the star chart)
          Tell the fleet that the days of
          negotiation and diplomacy are over.
          The Almighty Federation will fall
          before us.  As I promised you.

He stands on the area of the map that denotes the Neutral
Zone between the Romulan Empire and the Federation.

                     SHINZON
          The time we have dreamed of is at
          hand.  The time... of conquest.
               (sinister laugh)

He carefully steps into the area of the map marked with the
Federation symbol.  He looks down at the star chart.

                     SHINZON
          Cut off the dragon's head and it
          cannot strike back.

A beat.  Donatra watches him carefully.  Something in his
quiet words disturbs her.

                     SURAN
          How many Warbirds will you need?

                     SHINZON
          None.

They look at him, stunned.

                     SURAN
          Praetor.  You have the whole fleet
          at your disposal.  They supported
          the coup, they'll follow you.

                     SHINZON
          The Scimitar will serve my needs.

                     SURAN
          But surely --

                     SHINZON
          I came this far alone...
               (he looks at his Reman
                warriors)
          We came this far alone.  We require
          no assistance from the fleet.  Now
          leave me to my thoughts.

The Commanders and Senator Tal'Aura rise and leave.  Shinzon
looks to his Viceroy.

                     SHINZON
          Are we prepared?

                     VICEROY
          Yes, Praetor.

A beat.

                     SHINZON
          So many years for this moment.
               (he looks up at his
                Viceroy, smiles)
          Bring him to me.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - DAY

The bridge crew are at their stations.  Picard is not on the
bridge.

                     WORF
               (grumbles)
          I won't do it.

                     DEANNA
          It's tradition,Worf.  You of all
          people should appreciate that!
               (whispers)
          Besides, I've already seen it.

                     WORF
          A warrior does not appear without
          his clothing.  It leaves him...
          vulnerable.

                     RIKER
          I don't think we're going to see
          much combat on Betazed.

                     DEANNA
          Don't be too sure.  Mother will be
          there.

Worf groans.  Picard emerges from his Ready Room as:

                     WORF
          I won't do it.

                     PICARD
          Won't do what, Mister Worf?

                     WORF
          Captain.  I think it is
          inappropriate for a Starfleet
          officer to appear...
               (hates the word)
          ... naked.

                     PICARD
          Come now, a big, strapping fellow
          like you?  What are you afraid of?

Deanna laughs.  Then a readout on Worf's console attracts his
attention:

                     WORF
          I'm picking up an unusual
          electromagnetic signature from the
          Kolarin system.

                     PICARD
          What sort of signature?

Worf looks up.  Glances at Data.

                     WORF
          Positronic.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - LATER

Geordi is at the Engineering station with Picard, Riker and
Data.

                     GEORDI
          It's very faint but I've isolated
          it to the third planet in the
          Kolarin system.

                     PICARD
          What do we know about the planet?

                     GEORDI
          Uncharted.  We'll have to get
          closer for a more detailed scan.

                     PICARD
               (to Data)
          Theories?

                     DATA
          Since positronic signatures have
          only been known to emanate from
          androids such as myself, it is
          logical to theorize that there is
          an android such as myself on
          Kolarus III.

                     GEORDI
          How many of you did Dr. Soong make?

                     DATA
          I thought only me, myself and Lore.

                     RIKER
               (looking at star chart)
          Diverting to the Kolarin system
          takes us awfully close to the
          Romulan Neutral Zone.

                     PICARD
               (looking at star chart)
          Still well on our side...

Picard glances at Data, recognizes the android's deep desire
to explore this possible connection to others like himself.

                     PICARD
          I think it's worth a look.  Don't
          worry, Number One, we'll get you to
          Betazed with time to spare.

                     RIKER
          Thank you, sir...

                     PICARD
               (to all, especially Worf)
          Where we will all honor the
          Betazoid traditions.  No cold feet,
          or any other parts of our anatomy.
          Now, if you'll excuse me.  I'll be
          in the gym.

He goes.

                     RIKER
               (to Helm Officer)
          Mister Branson, set course for the
          Kolarin system.  Warp Five --
               (Deanna shoots him a
                glance)
          -- Warp Seven.

                     HELM OFFICER (MISTER BRANSON)
          Plotted and laid in, sir.

                     RIKER
          Engage.

                     DEANNA
          You better believe you're engaged!

Meanwhile, Geordi and Data remain at the Engineering Station,
studying the displays.

                     GEORDI
          What do you think, Data, a long-
          lost relative?

Data doesn't respond, but the curiosity on his face is
apparent.

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - OVER KOLARUS III - SPACE

The Enterprise is in orbit around the uncharted planet.  In
the distance we can see the distorting violence of an ion
storm.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE

Kolarus III is on the viewscreen, the ion storm raging beyond
it.

                     GEORDI
          I read six distinct positronic
          signatures, spread out over a few
          kilometers on the surface.

                     PICARD
          What do we know about the
          population?

                     DATA
          Isolated pockets of humanoids.  It
          appears to be a pre-warp
          civilization at an early stage of
          industrial development.

                     GEORDI
          Captain, I don't recommend
          transporting, that ion storm
          doesn't look very neighborly.  It
          could head this way without much
          warning.

                     PICARD
          Understood.  Data, Worf, you're
          with me.

Picard, Data and Worf start heading toward the turbolift.

                     RIKER
               (stands, protesting)
          Captain, I hope I don't have to
          remind you --

                     PICARD
          I appreciate your concern, Number
          One, but I've been itching to try
          out the Argo.

                     RIKER
          Sir --

                     PICARD
          Captain's prerogative, Will.
          There's no foreseeable danger...
          and your wife would never forgive
          me if anything happened to you.

He steps into the turbolift with the Data and Worf.

                     PICARD
          You have the bridge, Mister Troi!

The turbolift doors slide shut.

The bridge crew heartily enjoys Riker's momentary demotion to
house husband.

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - OVER KOLARUS III - DAY

The shuttlebay doors slide open and the transport vehicle
Argo emerges.

The Argo is larger than a regular shuttle with a particularly
large cargo area at the back.

EXT.  KOLARUS III - DAY

The Argo lands on the planet.  It is primarily a desert
environment with some canyons and mountains.  Like Death
Valley, blazing heat waves shimmer in the distance.  The
shuttle sits silently for a moment.  We wonder at the delay,
then...

The rear cargo doors slide open and Picard, Data and Worf
roar out on a 24th Century equivalent of a military jeep!

Picard drives, Data beside him.  Worf stands in the back at a
mounted phaser canon.  It is a muscular, exciting vehicle; a
Starfleet version of the jeep from old television series "The
Rat Patrol."

Picard screeches to a stop.  Data and Worf lurch.  A cloud of
dust momentarily obscures them.  Data quickly monitors the
positronic signatures with a tricorder:

                     DATA
          The closest signature is two
          kilometers to the west... that
          direction, sir.

                     PICARD
          Thank you, Data.
               (he smiles)
          Let's see what she can do.

He roars off in a cloud of dust!

Picard clearly enjoys driving.  He roars over the desert
terrain at breakneck speed, having a hell of a good time.
His comrades don't exactly appreciate his free-spirited
driving panache.

Worf clings on to the mounted phaser canon for dear life.
Data steadies himself by grasping onto the rollbar

                     DATA
          I will always be baffled by the
          human predilection for piloting
          vehicles at unsafe velocities.

Picard smiles and drives a little faster.

                     DATA
               (monitoring with
                tricorder)
          Over that rise, sir... half a
          kilometer.

They continue on.  Before long they can see something on the
level desert floor before them.  They approach and stop to
discover...

An android arm.  The fingers patiently drumming the ground.

                     DATA
          It appears to be...
               (he scans with his
                tricorder)
          ... an arm.

                     WORF
               (suspicious)
          Why is it moving?

                     DATA
          Like me, it has been designed with
          modular power sources.

                     PICARD
          Mister Worf, if you please.

Worf climbs from the jeep and carefully approaches the arm.
Gingerly picks it up.  The arm responds to being picked up,
the hand starts feeling around in the air like something from
a horror movie.  Worf shudders.

He returns to the jeep.  Quickly sets the arm down in the
rear cargo area.

                     DATA
          The next signature is one kilometer
          to the south.

Picard starts the jeep in motion.

Time passes as they continue on... coming across another
arm... a leg... a torso... another leg... various
disassembled components of a Data-like android!

EXT.  JEEP - KOLARUS III - CANYON - DAY

Worf stands uneasily amidst the moving body parts.  There is
only one component missing: the head.  Picard steers the jeep
into a canyon.  Stops.  Data scans with his tricorder,
pointing it up into the gently sloping hills that form the
sides of the canyon.

                     DATA
          The final signature is
          approximately 300 meters up that
          incline.

                     PICARD
          Mister Worf, accompany Data please.

                     WORF
               (uneasy)
          To find the head, sir?

                     PICARD
               (amused)
          If you don't mind.

Worf and Data climb up into the hills in pursuit of the final
piece as Picard opens the jeep's hood and checks the engine.

EXT.  KOLARUS III - HILLS - DAY

Worf and Data climb as Data scans and indicates the
direction:

                     DATA
          Ten meters...

Worf pulls his phaser, ready.

                     DATA
          I think it unlikely you will need
          your phaser to recover the cranial
          unit.  Of course, it could bite
          you.

Then they see it.

Data's head.  Or the spitting image anyway.  Lying inert in
the dust before them.

                     WORF
          It's you.

                     DATA
          The resemblance is... striking.

Then the head's eyes suddenly pop open.  It looks up at them
with a sort of blank, childlike wonder.

                     HEAD
          Why am I looking at me?

                     DATA
          You are not looking at yourself.
          You are looking at me.

                     HEAD
               (looking at Worf)
          You do not look like me.

                     WORF
          No.

                     DATA
               (to head)
          I would like to pick you up now.
          May I do that?

                     HEAD
               (to Worf)
          You have a pretty shirt.

                     WORF
          Thank you.

Data gently picks up the head.  Looks at it.  The two
identical faces gaze at each other.

                     DATA
          Fascinating...

Then BLAM! -- a boulder near them explodes.  Worf and Data
spin to see...

A nomadic tribe of desert ALIENS swarming toward them firing
primitive plasma weapons --

Data and Worf race back down the canyon, toward the jeep --
some open-field running and a bit of phaser action -- Worf
firing to distract and slow the aliens, not kill them --
through all of this the head is chattering away blandly:

                     HEAD
          I have two arms and ten fingers.
          Do you know where my arms are?  I
          cannot see where we are going.
          Where are we going?
               (Etc... like Threepio in
                "Empire" when he's
                strapped to Chewbacca's
                back.)

The action continues.  Then Data finds himself almost
surrounded --

                     DATA
          Commander!

Worf turns -- Data throws the head to Worf like a football, a
perfect spiral -- the head is still chattering away -- Worf
catches it --

                     WORF
          STOP TALKING!

The head abruptly stops talking.

Data, hands free now, quickly incapacitates the aliens around
him with a dazzling demonstration of his superior strength
and agility.

Meanwhile, Worf tucks the head under his arm and sprints like
a master running back -- evading aliens and occasionally
firing his phaser --

They are closer to the jeep now -- but they are in trouble --
the swarm of aliens almost overtaking them -- !

When a thundering BLAST sends up a shower of debris, stopping
the aliens -- Picard is standing in the rear of the jeep,
firing the phaser canon.

Data and Worf climb into the jeep as Picard leaps into the
front seat and roars off --

INT./ EXT.  JEEP - KOLARUS III - FOLLOWING

Worf, standing at the phaser canon, quickly hands the head to
Data in the front seat:

                     WORF
          If you wouldn't mind.

                     DATA
          Thank you.

The head looks up at Picard.

                     HEAD
          You have a shiny head.

Picard glances at the head.

                     DATA
          He is very observant.

                     PICARD
          I can see that.

                      WORF
          Captain!

Picard turns to see that they are being pursued!  The aliens
are racing after them in crude desert-terrain vehicles --

                     PICARD
               (to Data)
          Shall we try some "unsafe
          velocities?"

He floors it -- racing across the desert landscape.

Worf fires the mounted phaser canon -- blasting away at the
aliens, not killing them, just stopping them -- a few
dramatic crashes as the alien vehicles overturn --

Meanwhile:

                     HEAD
               (to Picard)
          You have a red shirt.

                     DATA
               (to head)
          This is not an appropriate time for
          a conversation.

                     HEAD
          Why?

                     DATA
          Because the captain has to
          concentrate on piloting the
          vehicle.

                     HEAD
          Why?

                     PICARD
          Data!

                     DATA
          Sorry, sir.

They continue to speed over the landscape -- bouncing and
flying over natural rises in the terrain -- trying to evade
their pursuers --

Picard puts the pedal to the metal and races through the
alien vehicles -- weaving in and out, avoiding their fire --
Worf blasts away with the phaser cannon -- an exhilarating
adventure --

Finally they are within sight of the Argo -- but they see it
is surrounded by more of the aliens!

                     PICARD
          Mister Data.  Let's make like the
          wind.

Data punches some buttons on a dashboard console -- and the
Argo LIFTS OFF by remote control --

Data uses the console to swing the Argo around and lower the
rear cargo doors -- it hovers over the surface --

Picard floors the jeep -- using a natural rise in the terrain
as a ramp -- the jeep FLIES THROUGH THE AIR -- over the
aliens -- and into the cargo bay --

INT.  ARGO - CARGO BAY - FOLLOWING

Picard slams on the brakes -- the jeep screeches to a stop as
the doors shut and the Argo shoots into the air.

Picard climbs from the jeep.  He nonchalantly rubs a bit of
dirt from the hood and then disappears into the main cabin.

Data and Worf remain in the jeep for a beat, stunned.

                     WORF
               (smiles)
          He must have Klingon blood.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - ENGINEERING LAB - DAY

Beverly gazes at the android head.  It gazes back at her.

                     BEVERLY
          I think you have nicer eyes.

We pull back to reveal she is speaking to Data.  Data stands
with Picard, Riker and Geordi.

                     DATA
          Our eyes are identical, Doctor.

The android is in a framework rig that holds the various body
parts in place.  The parts are not yet assembled

                     RIKER
          Geordi?

                     GEORDI
               (at work analyzing the
                torso section)
          Well, he seems to have the same
          internal mechanics as Data but not
          as much positronic development.
          The neural pathways aren't nearly
          as sophisticated.  I'd say he's a
          prototype.  Something Dr. Soong
          created before Data.

                     DATA
               (to head)
          Do you have a name, sir?

                     HEAD
          I am the B-9.

                     PICARD
          Be-nign.  Dr. Soong's penchant for
          whimsical names seems to have no
          end.

                     HEAD
               (to Riker)
          You have a fuzzy face.

                     PICARD
               (trying to ignore the
                head)
          Keep me informed, Number One, and,
          please, put him back together.

He goes.  Geordi and Data begin to reassemble the B-9 piece
by piece like the Tin Man as:

                     DATA
          Can you tell me how you came to be
          on the planet where we found you?

                     B-9
               (blandly)
          I was taken from my homeworld by
          people called the "PakJeds." They
          are fat.  They traded me to a ship
          belonging to the "Bolians." The
          "Bolians" are blue.  They put me in
          a seat and asked me questions.
          Then they were attacked by another
          ship...

Time passes...

And still the B-9 is yammering blandly away.  He is more
fully assembled   By this time Beverly is thoroughly bored.

                     B-9
          Then people called the
          Delviciansans picked me up.  They
          have long teeth.  They asked if I
          do anything to help them.  I told
          them I could do whatever they
          wanted.  They asked me to clean out
          the matrix manifolds.  I told them
          I did not know what an Matrix
          manifold looks like.

                     BEVERLY
          Excuse me.  I have some diagnostics
          to run on some medical scanner
          things.

She quickly exits.

                     B-9
          And after they showed me the
          "engine manifolds." Then they
          showed me something called a
          "plasma mop"

Time passes...

And still the B-9 is yammering away.  He is almost completely
assembled by now.  Riker is bored out of his mind.

                     B-9
          ... then the "Cardassians" put me
          into something called a "garbage
          chute" and I went out into space
          again --

                     WORF (V.O.) (ON COMM)
          Worf to Commander Riker.  I have
          the tactical manifests ready, sir.

                     RIKER
               (quickly tapping his comm
                badge)
          Worf!  Wonderful!  I'll be right
          there!...
               (he stands)
          Duty calls, gentlemen.  Carry on.

He escapes.

                     B-9
          Fuzzy face is gone.

                     DATA
          Yes, please continue.

                     B-9
          I was in space for a long time.
          Then a ship belonging to the
          "Talosians" picked me up.  They
          asked me where I came from.  I told
          them people called the "Pakleds"
          took me from my homeworld.  They
          are fat...

Geordi groans.

Time passes...

And still the B-9 is yammering away.  By this time Geordi is
slumped in a chair and only Data is listening.  The B-9 is
fully assembled.

                     B-9
          Then I opened my eyes and saw you.

A beat.  The B-9 is finally done with his tale...

                     DATA
          Do you know who I am?

                     B-9
          You are me.

                     DATA
          No.  My name is Data... I am your
          brother.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - CREW LOUNGE - NIGHT

Riker and Deanna are having dinner with Worf.

                     DEANNA
               (to Worf)
          ... and after the ceremony on
          Betazed, three entire weeks for our
          honeymoon.

                     RIKER
          We're going sailing on the Opal
          Sea.  We've booked an old-fashioned
          solar catamaran.  Just us and the
          sun and the waves.

                     WORF
          It seems a very... soft honeymoon.

                     DEANNA
               (amused)
          It's meant to be relaxing.

                     WORF
          A Klingon honeymoon begins with the
          Kholamar desert march where the
          couple bonds in endurance trials.
          If they survive the challenge they
          move on to the Fire Caves of
          Fek'lhr to face the demons of
          Gre'thor.

                     RIKER
          Well, that sounds relaxing too.

                     WORF
          It is... invigorating.

They see Data enter the lounge, carefully leading the B-9.

                     RIKER
          So they've got him up and running.

                     WORF
          He's a very unusual android

                     RIKER
               (smiles)
          Runs in the family.

They watch as Data leads the B-9 to a table.  Data instructs
him to sit.  The B-9 sits and stares forward placidly.  Data
shows him how use a napkin.

A note of concern passes over Deanna's face as she watches
Data and the B-9.

There is something strangely poignant in the twin androids.
One a bundle of curiosity and intelligence; the other
somewhat like a slow, simple child.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - READY ROOM - NIGHT

Picard is at his replicator unit.

                     PICARD
          Earl Grey, hot.

A cup of tea appears.  He takes it as the door chime sounds.

                     PICARD
          Come.
               (Deanna enters)
          Counselor.

                     DEANNA
          Do you have a moment, sir?

                     PICARD
          Of course, sit down.

He sits at his desk  She sits across from him.

                     DEANNA
          It's about Data  I've watched him
          with the B-9 and I'm troubled.
          Data's desire for a "family" is
          very strong.  I'm afraid he may be
          investing too much in the B-9.

                     PICARD
          You're speaking of emotional
          investment?

                     DEANNA
          The B-9 is like a slow child, sir.
          And Data, in his own way, has
          assumed the position of a parent or
          guardian.  I'm afraid he has
          expectations based on his own
          experiences.  He'll be disappointed
          when the B-9 cannot meet those
          expectations.

                     PICARD
          As much as we care for him,
          Deanna... we have to remember that
          Data isn't capable of
          disappointment.

                     DEANNA
          I don't believe that, sir.  We've
          shared many disappointing journeys.

A quiet beat.

                     PICARD
          I'm going to miss you.

                     DEANNA
          And I you.

They are interrupted by a comm signal:

                     RIKER (V.O.) (ON COMM)
          Captain, you have an Alpha Priority
          communication from Starfleet
          Command.

                     PICARD
          Acknowledged...
               (Deanna stands)
          ... I'll talk to Data

                     DEANNA
          Thank you, sir.

She goes.  Picard activates his desktop viewscreen.

ADMIRAL KATHRYN JANEWAY appears on Picard's monitor.  Janeway
is the former captain of Voyager.  Her new rank fits her
well, she has lost none of her dry humor and down-to-earth
charm which made her a household name and beloved cult
figure.

                     PICARD
          Admiral Janeway.  Good to see you.

                     JANEWAY (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          Jean Luc... How'd you like a trip
          to Romulus?  All expenses paid?

                     PICARD
               (smiles)
          With or without the rest of the
          fleet?

                     JANEWAY (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          A diplomatic mission.  We've been
          invited, believe it or not.  Seems
          there's been some kind of internal
          political shakeup.  The new
          Praetor, someone called Shinzon,
          has requested a Federation envoy.

                     PICARD
          New Praetor?

                     JANEWAY (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          There's more... as always.  He's
          Reman.
               (Picard is surprised)
          Believe me, we don't understand it
          either.  You're the closest ship so
          I want you to high tail it over
          there and hear what he has to say.
          Get the lay of the land, If the
          Empire becomes unstable, it could
          mean trouble for the entire
          quadrant.

                     PICARD
          Understood.

                     JANEWAY (ON VIEWSCREEEN)
          We're sending you all the
          intelligence we have, but it's not
          much.  I don't need to tell you to
          watch your back, Jean Luc.

                     PICARD
          Not with the Romulans.

                     JANEWAY (ON VIEWSCREEN)
               (smiles wryly)
          The Son'a, the Borg, the Romulans,
          the evil Soran and that pesky
          Nexus.  You seem to get all the
          easy assignments!

                     PICARD
          Just lucky, Admiral.

                     JANEWAY (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          Let's hope that luck holds.
          Janeway out.

The transmission ends.

Picard sits for a moment, intrigued.  Then he goes to the
bridge

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard goes to his command chair:

                     PICARD
               (to Helm)
          Lay in a new course... Take us to
          Romulus.  Warp eight.

The crew is shocked.

                     HELM OFFICER
          Aye aye, sir.  Course plotted and
          laid in...

                     RIKER
          Romulus?

                     PICARD
          I'm afraid the Opal Sea will have
          to wait, Number One... Engage.

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - SPACE

And the Enterprise jumps to high warp -- disappearing in a
flash of dazzling light.  Yes!

INT.  ENTERPRISE - OBSERVATION LOUNGE - DAY

Data conducts a briefing for the senior officers.  Monitors
currently show an image of Romulus and Remus in orbit around
their sun.

                     DATA
          As you can see the habitable half
          of Remus is always in darkness
          because, like Mercury, one side
          always faces the sun.  Due to the
          extreme temperatures on that half
          of their world, the Remans live on
          the dark side of the planet.

Various grainy and unclear new images appear to illustrate
Data's words:

                     DATA
          Almost nothing is known about the
          Reman homeworld, although
          intelligence scans have proven the
          existence of dilithium mining and
          heavy weapons construction.

Very obscure images of Remans appear, the crew can barely
make out the monstrous figures:

                     DATA
          The Remans themselves are
          considered an undesirable caste in
          the hierarchy of the Empire.

                     RIKER
          But they also have the reputation
          of being formidable warriors.  In
          the Dominion War, Reman forces were
          used as assault troops in the most
          violent encounters.

                     PICARD
               (grim)
          Cannon fodder.

                     GEORDI
          Then how did a Reman get to be
          Praetor?  I don't get it.

                     RIKER
          We have to assume he had Romulan
          collaborators.

                     PICARD
          A coup d'etat?

                     RIKER
          The Praetor's power has always been
          the Romulan fleet.  They must be
          behind him.

Picard considers this.

                     PICARD
               (to Data)
          What have you learned about
          Shinzon?

The images end.  There are no images of Shinzon.

                     DATA
          Starfleet intelligence was only
          able to provide a partial account
          of his military record.  We can
          infer he is relatively young and a
          capable commander.  He fought
          seventeen major engagements in the
          war.  All successful.  Beyond that,
          we know nothing.

                     PICARD
          Well... it seems we're truly
          sailing into the unknown.  Keep at
          it.  Anything you can give me would
          be appreciated.  Dismissed.

The meeting breaks up.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - ENGINEERING LAB - DAY

The B-9 stares placidly forward.

We pull back and discover that computer conduits connect the
B-9's head to Data's head.  Geordi monitors the connection.

                     DATA
          At present he serves no useful
          function.  Dr. Soong created us to
          become active and useful members of
          society.  I do not believe he would
          have wanted the B-9 to live out his
          life in his present state.

                     GEORDI
          I can't believe the Captain went
          along with a memory download.

                     DATA
          Captain Picard agrees that the B-9
          was probably designed with the same
          self-actualization parameters as
          myself.  If my memory engrams are
          successfully integrated into his
          positronic matrix, he should have
          all my abilities.

                     GEORDI
          He'd have all your memories too.
          You feel comfortable with that?

                     DATA
          I feel nothing, Geordi.  It is my
          belief that with my memory engrams
          he will be able to function as a
          more complete individual.

                     GEORDI
          An individual more like you, you
          mean.

                     DATA
          Yes.

                     GEORDI
          Maybe he's not supposed to be like
          you.  Maybe he's supposed to be
          just like he is.

Geordi completes his work

                     GEORDI
          Okay... we're done.

Geordi removes the computer connections from between their
heads.  He carefully closes the panel in Data's head as:

                     DATA
               (to B-9)
          Do you know where you are?

                     B-9
          I am in a room with lights.

He looks blankly at the console lights.

                     DATA
          Can you remember our father?

                     B-9
          No.

Data glances to Geordi.

                     DATA
          Do you know the name of the Captain
          of this vessel?

                     B-9
          No.

                     DATA
          Is that your final answer?

                     GEORDI
               (to B-9)
          Do you know my name?

                     B-9
          You have a soft voice.

                     GEORDI
               (gently)
          Data, he's assimilating a lot of
          programming.  Remember, he's a
          prototype, a lot less sophisticated
          than you are.  We just don't know
          if his matrix will be able to
          adapt.  Or if he'll be able to
          retain anything.  We should give
          him some time.

Data has been studying some circuitry in the B-9's neck.

                     DATA
          What purpose does this serve?

                     GEORDI
               (also examining circuitry)
          It seems to be a redundant memory
          port.  Maybe it's for provisional
          memory storage in case his neural
          pathways overload?

                     DATA
          Dr. Soong must have found it
          unnecessary in later versions.

                     GEORDI
          It's possible the extra memory port
          is interfering with the engram
          processing.  Mind if I keep him
          here and run some diagnostics?

                     DATA
          No, I do not mind.

Data looks at the B-9 with a sort of sadness.

                     DATA
          But I believe he will prove
          incapable of performing higher
          functions.

                     GEORDI
          Don't give up hope, Data.  I know,
          I know, you're not capable of hope.

                     DATA
               (looking at B-9)
          I am not.

Data stands.  The B-9 stands to follow.

                     DATA
          No, remain with Commander La Forge.
          He is going to try to make you
          well.

The B-9 sits.  Data goes.  Geordi watches him go.

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - OVER ROMULUS - SPACE

The Enterprise is in orbit around Romulus.  Remus can be seen
in the distance.

                     PICARD (V.O.)
          Captain's Log.  Stardate 47844.9.
          The Enterprise has arrived at
          Romulus and is waiting at the
          designated coordinates.  All our
          hails have gone unanswered.  We've
          been waiting for seventeen hours.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The crew is tense.  Silence.

Worf, at tactical, slowly stretches his neck.  Trying to
release the tension.  It cracks.  Deanna jumps a bit.

                     RIKER
          Why don't they answer our hails?

                     PICARD
          It's an old psychological strategy,
          Number One.  To put him in a
          position of dominance and make us
          uneasy.

                     RIKER
          It's working.

                     PICARD
               (to Deanna)
          Counselor?

                     DEANNA
          They're out there, sir.

Picard stands and walks to the viewscreen.  He gazes at
Romulus below and the black infinity of space beyond.
They're out there, Waiting.

                     WORF
          Sir,  I recommend we raise shields.

                     PICARD
          Not yet, Mister Worf.

                     RIKER
          Captain, with all due respect to
          diplomatic protocols -- the
          Federation Council's not sitting
          out here, we are.

                     PICARD
          Patience.  Diplomacy is a very
          exacting occupation.  We can wait.

                     DATA
          Captain...

And on the viewscreen.

Shinzon's magnificent Reman Warbird, the SCIMITAR, decloaks
directly before the Enterprise.

EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - SPACE

Our first sight of this incredible ship is absolutely
breathtaking.

Shinzon's vessel combines the clean lines of the traditional
Romulan Warbird with unique weaponry and styling.  It is
huge, easily twice as large as the Enterprise.  And it is
aggressive.  Awesome in its power.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The crew gapes at the huge ship on the viewscreen.

                     RIKER
               (slowly rising from his
                chair)
          My God...

                     WORF
               (tense)
          Should I raise shields?

                     PICARD
          No!

                     WORF
          Captain -- !

                     PICARD
               (firm)
          Tactical analysis, Mister Worf.

                     WORF
               (quickly analyzing
                tactical display)
          Fifty-two disruptor banks, twenty-
          seven photon torpedo bays, primary
          and secondary phased shields.

                     RIKER
          She's not out for a pleasure
          cruise.

                     PICARD
               (grim)
          She's a predator.

                     WORF
          We're being hailed.

                     PICARD
          On screen.

And the image on the viewscreen transforms to:

Shinzon's Viceroy.

He stands on the Scimitar's bridge.  The bridge is as unique
as the rest of Shinzon's ship.  Instead of the usual
mechanical clutter, this bridge is designed with an almost
Asian simplicity.  Like the rest of Reman design, it is spare
and elegant.

Since the Remans are more comfortable in the darkness, most
of the light comes from the three steadily pulsing warp core
relays which dramatically soar up through the floor of the
bridge.

The crew gazes at the bridge and the monstrous features of
the viceroy.

                     VICEROY (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          Enterprise.  We are the Reman
          Warbird Scimitar.

                     PICARD
          Praetor Shinzon, I'm pleased to --

                     VICEROY (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          I am not Shinzon.  I am his
          Viceroy.  We are sending transport
          coordinates.

The transmission ends abruptly.  The Scimitar reappears on
the viewscreen.

                     RIKER
          Not very chatty.

                     PICARD
          Away team.  Transporter room four.

Picard, Riker, Deanna, Worf and Data head toward the
turbolift, energized now that the endless waiting is over.

INT.  SCIMITAR - OBSERVATION LOUNGE - NIGHT

The away team materializes in the most striking location on
Shinzon's ship: a large observation lounge.

It is a huge, empty chamber.  No furniture.  A simple Reman
mat on the floor is the only decoration.  At the very top of
the room there is a large, etched glass dome.

It is very dark.

They turn when Shinzon speaks from the shadows:

                     SHINZON (V.O.)
          I hope you'll forgive the
          darkness... we're not comfortable
          in the light.

                     PICARD
          Praetor Shinzon?

Shinzon moves toward them a bit, becoming slightly more
illuminated, the low light shining off his golden hair.

The crew cannot see him clearly in the dim light but it is
evident he is human.  Assuming that he was Reman, they're
surprised by this realization.

Shinzon just stares at Picard through the darkness for a
moment.

                     SHINZON
          Captain Picard... Jean Luc
          Picard... I don't mean to stare,
          it's just -- well, you can't
          imagine how long I've been waiting
          for this moment.  I always imagined
          you taller, isn't that odd?
               (to Data)
          You may scan me without subterfuge,
          Commander Data.

Data scans him with a tricorder as:

                     PICARD
          And you're not as we imagined you.

                     SHINZON
          No?

                     WORF
          You are human.

                     SHINZON
          Commander Worf.
               (he speaks in Klingon)
          I greet you as a valiant warrior...
          and as my brother.

                     WORF
               (terse, in Klingon)
          I'll save my greetings for a better
          brother.

Shinzon laughs, maniacally.

                     PICARD
          Why have you asked for our presence
          here?

Shinzon does not answer.  He is staring deeply at Deanna,
moans softly.

                     PICARD
          Praetor?

                     SHINZON
               (quietly)
          I've never met a human woman.

He slowly moves toward her, still hidden in the shadows.

                     DEANNA
          I'm only half human.

                     SHINZON
          Deanna Troi of Betazed.  Empathic
          and telepathic abilities, ship's
          counselor.  All of this I knew...
          But I didn't know you were so
          beautiful.

                     RIKER
          You seem very familiar with our
          personnel.

Shinzon moves even closer to Deanna, not taking his eyes from
her.

                     SHINZON
          I am, Commander Riker...
               (to Deanna)
          ... May I touch your hair?

                     PICARD
               (firm)
          Praetor, we've come to Romulus on a
          matter we were -- assured was of
          great importance.  If you have
          anything to say to us as
          representatives of the Federation,
          I suggest you do so now.

Shinzon continues to stare at Deanna.  It is strangely
seductive.  Almost disquieting in its intensity.  Deanna
handles it with grace, her level gaze never leaving his.

                     SHINZON
               (softly)
          On the world I come from there's no
          light.  No sun.  Beauty isn't
          important.  I see now there's a
          world elsewhere.

                     PICARD
          Praetor Shinzon.  We're not here to
          discuss your lack of a social life.

                     SHINZON
               (turning back to Picard)
          Yes, I'm sorry, Captain.
               (he smiles)
          There's so much we have to talk
          about.

                     PICARD
          I would be interested to know what
          we are talking about.

                     SHINZON
          Unity, Captain!  Tearing down the
          walls between us to recognize we
          are one people.  Federation and
          Romulan.  Human and Vulcan and
          Klingon and Reman.  I'm speaking of
          the thing that makes us the same.
          We want peace.

Picard and the others are stunned.

                     SHINZON
          I want to end the centuries of
          mistrust.  I want to be your ally,
          not your enemy.  As a first step I
          propose we eliminate the Neutral
          Zone and begin a free and open
          exchange of goods and ideas.

                     PICARD
          And the Senate supports you?

                     SHINZON
               (dry)
          I have dissolved the Senate.

A beat.

                     SHINZON
          Right now, you're thinking this all
          sounds too good to be true?

                     PICARD
          Yes.

                     SHINZON
          And you're wondering why the
          Scimitar is so well armed.  Is this
          the ship of a peacemaker?  Or a
          predator?
               (Picard is startled at
                Shinzon's choice of
                words)
          ... But you're also thinking the
          chance for peace is too promising
          to ignore.  Above all, you're
          trying to decide if you can trust
          me.

                     PICARD
          Yes.

                     SHINZON
          Then perhaps the time has come to
          add some illumination to our
          discussion.  Computer, raise
          lighting four levels.

Lights shoot up around the room.

For the first time the crew can see Shinzon clearly.  Picard
actually gasps when he sees Shinzon's face.  The rest of the
crew doesn't understand his reaction.

                     SHINZON
          Allow me to tell you a story that I
          hope will clarify my position.
          When I was very young I was
          stricken with an odd disease.  I
          developed a hyper-sensitivity to
          sound.  The slightest whisper
          caused me agony...

Picard watches him carefully.  Wary and strangely intense.

                     SHINZON
          No one knew what to do.  Finally I
          was taken to a doctor who had some
          experience with Terran illnesses
          and I was finally diagnosed with
          Shalaft's syndrome.  Do you know of
          it, Captain?

                     PICARD
          You know I do.

The crew is dumbfounded at Picard's unusual reaction.

                     SHINZON
          Then you know it's a very rare
          syndrome.  Genetic.  All the male
          members of my family had it.
          Eventually I was treated.  Now I
          can hear as well as you can,
          Captain.

He steps toward Picard who holds his ground.

                     SHINZON
          I can see as well as you can.  I
          can feel everything you feel.
               (He stops right before
                Picard)
          In fact, I feel exactly what you
          feel.  Don't I, Jean Luc?

Picard stares at him with a mixture of realization and
curiosity.  It is as if Picard is looking into a strange,
remembered mirror: Shinzon's face is nearly identical to his
at that age.

                     SHINZON
          Do you trust me now?

A beat.

                     PICARD
          We need to talk, just you and I.

                     SHINZON
          Come to dinner on Romulus tomorrow.
          Just the two of us.  Or just the
          one of us.

                     PICARD
          You know I need to verify this.

                     SHINZON
          I know.

The crew is utterly confused.  Their confusion turns to
outright shock when Shinzon calmly pulls out a Reman knife
and cuts his arm, drawing a little blood.  He hands the knife
to Data.

                     SHINZON
          Tomorrow then, Captain.  We have so
          much to discuss.

Picard touches his communicator pin:

                     PICARD
          Picard to Enterprise.  Five to beam
          out.

They dematerialize, the shimmering glow illuminating
Shinzon's features.  Picard's eyes never leave Shinzon as
the transporter effect ripples around him.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - SICKBAY - DAY

Beverly stands with Picard, Riker and Deanna.  The Reman
knife is under a protonmicroscope and other medical readouts
and analysis are visible.

                     BEVERLY
          There's no doubt, Captain.  Right
          down to your regressive strain of
          Shalaft's Syndrome.  He's a clone.

A beat as the confirmation sinks in.

                     PICARD
          When was he... created?

                     BEVERLY
          About twenty-five years ago.  They
          probably used a hair follicle or
          skin cell.

                     PICARD
               (touching head)
          I think a skin cell's the more
          likely of the two.

                     RIKER
          Why?

                     PICARD
          Believe me, Number One; I'm going
          to find out.  Contact Starfleet
          Command and inform them of the
          situation.  I need to know where
          the hell he came from.  Deanna.

He goes, Deanna following.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - CORRIDOR - FOLLOWING

                     DEANNA
          I would say he's been trained to
          resist telepathy.  What I could
          sense of his emotions were erratic,
          very hard to follow.

                     PICARD
          Is he sincere about wanting peace?

                     DEANNA
          I don't know.
               (she stops him)
          Sir, the strongest sense I had was
          that he's more than curious about
          you.  He very much wants to know
          you.
               (she looks at him deeply)
          The same way you want to know him.

                     PICARD
          How could I not?

                     DEANNA
          Captain, don't assume he's anything
          like you are.  You should resist
          the urge to think you know him.

                     PICARD
          I not only know him, Deanna, I am
          him... and he is me!

He goes.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - RIKER AND DEANNA'S CABIN - NIGHT

Riker is hard at work over a series of padds.  He has been
working for hours.

                     DEANNA
          Will, you need to rest.
               (he continues to work)
          As ship's counselor, I'm
          recommending you get me sleep.

Riker tosses a padd on the desk.  Rubs his eyes.  Looks up
her.

                     RIKER
          Some honeymoon.

She smiles and goes to him.

                     DEANNA
          We have time.
               (she kisses him)
          Come to bed.

She pulls him up.

                     RIKER
          Imzadi, what am I going to do with
          you?

They kiss deeply.  She pulls him across the room and they
fall into the bed.

It is passionate, erotic.  Her arms undulate around him
sensually... her fingers snake through his hair, but
something is wrong.  Riker's hair is now blond.

She starts back, her eyes growing wide.

Riker is gone.  She is now embracing Shinzon!

                     SHINZON
          Imzadi.  This is so good.

                     DEANNA
          No!

He caresses her face...

                     SHINZON
          He can never know you as I know
          you... He can never touch you as I
          touch you.

                     DEANNA
          This isn't real.

                     SHINZON
          Can you feel my hands... are they
          real?  Can you feel my lips, my
          loins?

He kisses her neck -- but when he raises his head again.  It
is the monstrous Viceroy!  Holding her.  Caressing her.  She
is frozen in horror.  But is it the Viceroy at all?

Shinzon's voice seems to come from the Viceroy's lips:

                     SHINZON (V.O.)
          I'm with you, Imzadi...

And then it is Shinzon again, kissing her:

                     SHINZON
          I'll always be with you now.  Now
          and forever...

                     DEANNA
          You sick bastard!

She pushes him away...

                     RIKER
          Deanna?!  What's with the name
          calling?

It is Riker.  She stares at him, then clings to him
desperately.

EXT.  ROMULAN SENATE - DAY

The Byzantine splendors of the Senate loom before us.

INT.  ROMULAN SENATE CHAMBER - DAY

Heavy drapes are drawn against any hint of the sun.  Shinzon
is in conference with the Romulan Commanders and Senator
Tal'Aura.  Commander Donatra watches him closely.

Commander Suran is angry, pacing.  Shinzon stands.  His
Viceroy lurks in a corner.

                     SURAN
          ... then I don't understand the
          reason for the delay!

                     SHINZON
          You don't have to understand.

                     SURAN
          And bringing the Enterprise here?!
          What possible purpose could that
          serve?!

                     SHINZON
          I have a purpose.

                     SURAN
          Then perhaps you will enlighten us?

                     SHINZON
               (snaps)
          Silence, Romulan!

A tense beat.  Shinzon regains his composure.

                     SHINZON
          You must learn patience, Commander.
          Do you know where I learned it?  In
          the dilithium mines of Remus.
          Spend eighteen hours every day
          under the lash of a Romulan guard's
          whip and you'll soon understand
          patience.

                     SURAN
               (carefully bows his head)
          Praetor.

                     SHINZON
          Now go.  I have some personal
          business.

Suran and the others go.

Donatra turns just as she is leaving the chamber, she sees
the Viceroy going to Shinzon.  And then do something odd.
The Viceroy puts his hand on Shinzon's chest, leans very
close and talks to him quietly.  This is an ancient form of
Reman telepathic medical diagnosis.

This strange sight perplexes Donatra.  The doors close,
blocking her view...

INT.  SENATE - CORRIDOR - FOLLOWING

We go with Donatra and the other Romulans.  Donatra speaks
quietly to Suran:

                     DONATRA
          How long before he has us in the
          dilithium mines?

INT.  ENTERPRISE - DATA'S CABIN - DAY

The B-9 sits placidly in a chair, staring forward.

Then, as if a switch was thrown, he moves.  He quickly rises
and goes to a computer console.  He efficiently starts
punching in commands at an amazing velocity.

INT.  ROMULAN SENATE CHAMBER - NIGHT

Picard and Shinzon sit alone in a corner of the sweeping
Senate chamber.  The remains of dinner before them.

                     SHINZON
          And when I was ready they were
          going to replace you with me, an
          exact biological duplicate.  Put a
          Romulan agent at the heart of
          Starfleet to influence your command
          structure.  It was a bold plan.

                     PICARD
          What happened?

                     SHINZON
          As happens so frequently here on
          Romulus, a new government came to
          power.  They decided to abandon the
          plan -- frankly, I think they were
          afraid I'd be discovered and it
          would lead to war.  They weren't
          ready for that.

Picard pours a glass of Romulan ale.

                     SHINZON
          Romulan ale -- I'm surprised.  I
          can't stand it.

                     PICARD
               (smiles)
          You'll acquire a taste for it.

A beat.  They look at each other.

                     SHINZON
          It's not quite the face you
          remember.

                     PICARD
          Not quite.  I envy the hairline.

                     SHINZON
          A lifetime of violence will do
          that.  My nose was broken four
          times.  And my jaw... But so much
          is the same.  The eyes, you
          recognize the eyes.

                     PICARD
          Yes.  The eyes have it.

                     SHINZON
          Our eyes reflect our lives, don't
          they?  Yours are so confident.

                     PICARD
          How did you end up on Remus?

                     SHINZON
          They sent me there to die.  How
          could a mere human survive the
          dilithium mines?  It was...
               (he can't find the words)
          ... I was a slave.  And a monster.
          The only thing the Romulan guards
          hated more than the Remans was me.
          But one man took pity on me: the
          man who became my Viceroy.  He
          taught me how to survive.  And in
          that dark place, where there was
          nothing of myself, I found my Reman
          brothers.  They showed me the only
          kindness I ever knew.

A beat.  He glances to the Romulan crest on the wall.

                     SHINZON
          For thousands of years the Romulan
          Senate has met in this chamber and
          dictated the fate of its sister-
          planet... But the time has come for
          us to live as equals.

                     PICARD
          You're doing this to liberate the
          Remans?

                     SHINZON
          No race should be a slave to
          another.

Picard is impressed with Shinzon's quiet words.

                     SHINZON
          You don't trust me.

                     PICARD
          I have no reason to.

                     SHINZON
          Of course you do.  If you had lived
          my life and experienced the
          suffering of my people... you'd be
          sitting where I am now.  At least I
          hope you would.

                     PICARD
          And if you had lived my life you
          would understand that there is a
          great responsibility in
          representing the Federation.  I
          can't let my personal feelings
          unduly influence my decisions.

                     SHINZON
          All I have is my personal feelings.
          I wasn't raised with the ideals of
          the Federation.  But I'm trying to
          understand them now.  To live up to
          them   To live up to you.

A beat.

                     SHINZON
          I want to know where I come from.
          The Remans gave me a future.  You
          can tell me about my past.

                     PICARD
          There's so much, and so much of it
          is dull...

                     SHINZON
          Were we always explorers?

                     PlCARD
          No.  I was the first Picard to
          leave Earth.  It caused quite a
          stir, In fact.  But I had spent my
          whole life...

                     SHINZON
               (finishing the sentence)
          Looking up at the stars.

                     PICARD
          Yes.

                     SHINZON
          And you dreamed about what was up
          there.  About...

                     PICARD
               (finishing the sentence)
          New worlds.

A beat.

They both reach for a carafe of water at the exact same
instant.  Stop.

                     PICARD
          After you, Praetor.

                     SHINZON
               (smiles)
          Age before rank, Jean Luc.

Picard smiles, pours a glass.

                     PICARD
          So I'm not as tall as you expected?

                     SHINZON
          I always hoped I would hit two
          meters.

                     PICARD
          With a full head of hair.

                     SHINZON
               (smiles)
          There is that.

A quiet beat.

                     PICARD
          Shinzon... I'm trying to believe
          you.

                     SHINZON
          I know.

                     PICARD
          If there's one ideal the Federation
          holds most dear it's that all men,
          all races, can be united.  From the
          first time the Vulcans came to
          Earth we've sought a future of
          peace.  Nothing would make me more
          proud than to take your hand in
          friendship.  In time.  When trust
          has been earned.

                     SHINZON
          I'm honored to think I might
          someday speak with such eloquence.

A beat.

                     SHINZON
          In time, Jean Luc.

                     PICARD
          In time.

INT.  SENATE CHAMBER - LATER

Picard is gone.  Shinzon sits, thinking.  His Viceroy enters.

                     VICEROY
          This is a mistake.

                     SHINZON
          He's gentler than I thought.  And
          he has a sense of humor.

                     VICEROY
               (stern)
          Don't forget our mission, Shinzon.
          We should act.  Now.  Time is
          running out.

                     SHINZON
               (snaps)
          My time.  I'll spend it how I
          choose.

A tense beat.

                     SHINZON
          We'll return to the Scimitar.
          Prepare yourself for the bonding.

INT.  ENTERPRISE  BRIDGE - NIGHT

Picard emerges from the turbolift.  Data, Worf and Geordi
wait at the bridge engineering station.

                     WORF
          Sir, we've had an unauthorized
          access into the main computer.

                     PICARD
          Who was it?

                     GEORDI
          It's going to take some time to
          find out -- the data stream was
          rerouted through substations all
          over the ship.

                     PICARD
          What programs were accessed?

                     GEORDI
          That's what I don't get -- it's
          mostly basic stellar cartography:
          star charts; communications
          protocols; some uplinks from colony
          tracking stations.  It's not even
          restricted material.

                     PICARD
               (to Worf)
          Set up a security program to detect
          any unusual data stream rerouting.
          If it happens again, we want to be
          ready.

                     GEORDI
               (grim)
          There's something else.  I was
          reviewing the sensor logs...
               (he refers to some
                readouts on his console)
          When the Scimitar decloaked there
          was a momentary spike in the
          tertiary EM band -- there -- You're
          not going to believe this but it's
          Thalaron.

Picard is shocked.

INT.  SICKBAY - NIGHT

Picard stands, concerned, with Beverly, Geordi and Data.
Monitors showing Thalaron research are visible.

                     PICARD
          ... I thought Thalaron radiation
          was theoretical.

                     GEORDI
          Which is why our initial scans
          didn't pick it up.  But he's got
          it, Captain.

                     PICARD
          As I remember, Thalaron research
          was banned in the Federation
          because of its bioqenic properties.

                     BEVERLY
          It has the ability to consume
          organic material at the subatomic
          level.  I can't overestimate the
          danger of Thalaron radiation, Jean
          Luc.  A microscopic amount could
          kill every living thing on this
          ship in a matter of seconds.

                     PICARD
          Understood.  Keep on it.  I need to
          know what he has and how to
          neutralize any threat.  Give me
          options.

Picard goes.  Data thinks for a moment.

                     DATA
          Doctor, will you excuse us for a
          moment?  Geordi, please come with
          me.

He and Geordi head out.  Beverly returns to some medical
displays showing Thalaron research, her expression deeply
concerned.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - PICARD'S CABIN - NIGHT

Picard is sitting at his desk, flipping through an old photo
album.  He stops and stares at one of the pictures deeply
troubled.  We finally see the photo: Young Jean Luc Picard.
A serious, unsmiling cadet at Starfleet Academy.  The face
before him bears a disturbing resemblance to Shinzon.

The door comm chirps.

                     PICARD
          Come...
               (Beverly enters)
          ... Beverly, come in.

                     BEVERLY
          You're working late.

She sits, notes the picture of Young Jean Luc.

                     PICARD
          Remember him?

                     BEVERLY
          He was a bit proud as I recall.

                     PICARD
          He was a damn fool.  Selfish and
          ambitious.  Very much in need of
          seasoning.

                     BEVERLY
          He turned out all right.

He rises, goes to a window, gazes at the Scimitar in the
distance.  A beat.

                     PICARD
          I so wanted to believe Shinzon.
          But the Thalaron radiation can't be
          explained away.  Whatever he's
          after, it's not peace.

                     BEVERLY
          Is he very much like you were?

                     PICARD
          Yes.

Data interrupts on comm:

                     DATA (V.O.) (ON COMM)
          Data to Captain Picard.  Geordi and
          I have identified the source of the
          unauthorized computer access.  And,
          I believe, we have also discovered
          an opportunity to gain a tactical
          advantage.

                     PICARD
               (to comm)
          On my way...

                     BEVERLY
               (stands)
          Jean Luc -- whatever you were --
          right now you're the man you've
          made yourself.  He's someone else.

                     PICARD
          I wish I could believe that,
          Doctor.

He goes.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - TURBOLIFT - MORNING

Deanna is alone on the turbolift.  Then a voice makes her
spin:

                     SHINZON (V.O.)
          Imzadi...

Shinzon stands across from her.

                     DEANNA
          You're not here.

                     SHINZON
               (moving to her)
          Very logical, Deanna... But your
          heart doesn't constrain itself to
          mere logic.
               (he caresses her)
          ... Your heart longs to discover
          me.  To know me...
               (he kisses her)
          ... To leave all of this behind and
          be with me.

He pushes her against the wall, with passion and almost
violence.

                     DEANNA
          No...

                     SHINZON
          I can feel your desire, Deanna...

She forces herself to concentrate... to resist
telepathically... it is a mighty effort... this Romulan is
hot.  And the world around her appears to be changing...
bending...

And she is momentarily in a cabin on the Scimitar.  Although
entirely a telepathic experience, it is as if she has
actually traveled.

She sees Shinzon kneeling over a small flame, she realizes
she is looking through the Viceroy's eyes.

On the Scimitar, Shinzon looks up at the Viceroy/Deanna:

                     SHINZON
          I can feel your hunger to know the
          Reman ways... the old ways.

Then the world changes again...

Deanna is on the turbolift.  Shinzon is pressed against her,
whispering:

                     SHINZON
          Don't fear what you desire...

She forces him away from her and --

She is alone.  She sinks to her knees.  Overcome with
emotion.

INT.  SCIMITAR - VICEROY'S CABIN - FOLLOWING

The Viceroy, in a kind of trace, kneels before a small flame.
Shinzon kneels across from him.  The Viceroy raises his head.

                     VICEROY
          The bond is broken.

                     SHINZON
          Find her again.

                     VICEROY
          No -- this is wasting time.

                     SHINZON
          Do as I tell you!

A Reman officer interrupts on comm:

                     REMAN OFFICER (V.O.)
          Praetor, we've received the
          transponder signal.

                     SHINZON
               (to comm)
          On my way.

He begins to go -- but suddenly stops, a wave of illness
overtaking him.

The Viceroy puts his hand on Shinzon's chest.  A strange
moment as the Viceroy shuts his eyes and feels Shinzon's
chest.  His mind... probing.

Then the Viceroy looks up at him, grim.

                     VICEROY
          It's accelerating.  You have no
          more time for games.

                     SHINZON
          Have the doctors prepare.  I'll be
          on the bridge.

He goes.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - DAY

Shinzon stands with some REMAN ENGINEERS.

                     SHINZON
          Transport.

An Engineer activates a transporter and the B-9 materializes!

                     SHINZON
          Welcome home.
               (to Engineers)
          Begin the download.

Reman engineers go to the B-9 and open the panel in his neck,
begin connecting computer conduits to the extra memory port
we saw earlier.

(Note: Although the audience will not know it yet, this is
actually Data pretending to be the B-9.)

Shinzon goes to a replicator unit and orders:

                     SHINZON
          Tea, hot.

A cup of tea appears.  He takes it and sips as he watches his
Engineers connecting the conduits to the B-9.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - SICKBAY - DAY

Beverly is scanning Deanna.  Picard and Riker watch,
concerned.

                     BEVERLY
          Aside from slightly elevated
          adrenalin and serotonin levels,
          you're completely normal.

                     PICARD
               (gently)
          Can you describe it, Deanna?

She looks at Picard, tears in her eyes.

                     DEANNA
          It was... a violation.

Riker takes her hand.

                     DEANNA
               (with difficulty)
          Shinzon's Viceroy seems to have the
          ability to reach into my thoughts.
          I've become a liability... I
          request to be relieved of my
          duties.

                     PICARD
          Permission denied.  If you can
          possibly endure any more of these
          assaults.  I need you at my side.
          Now more than ever I...

But before the words are out of his mouth... he begins to
dematerialize!

                     RIKER
               (to comm)
          Worf!  Raise Shields !

But Picard is gone.

EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - SPACE

The Scimitar cloaks.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIG - NIGHT

Picard stands in the Reman brig.  His communicator pin has
been removed.

Beyond the security force field a ghoulish medical apparatus
is being prepared.  A metal chair with laser scalpels, IV
tubes and hyposprays connected to it.  Reman doctors work
over the mysterious chair.

Shinzon enters with the B-9 following.  Shinzon stands on the
other side of the force field.

Picard notices something immediately.  Tiny veins are now
visible on Shinzon's face; the faintest sign of an intricate
spider-web pattern of pale blue veins.

                     SHINZON
          Hello, Jean Luc.

                     PICARD
          Why am I here?

                     SHINZON
          I was lonely...
               (he realizes Picard is
                staring at the veins on
                his face)
          Perhaps I'm not aging as well as
          you did.

He nods to a guard.  The guard deactivates the force field.
A Reman doctor enters and raises a hypospray toward Picard.

                     PICARD
               (resists)
          What are you doing?

                     SHINZON
          I need a sample of your blood.
          What do your Borg friends say?
          Resistance is futile.
               (maniacal laugh)

The Doctor takes a quick sample of Picard's blood as Picard
glances to the B-9.

                     SHINZON
          Yes.  The bait you couldn't refuse.
          I learned there might be an
          existing prototype from a
          Cardassian historian, then went to
          a great deal of trouble to find it
          and scatter it about on Kolarus
          III.  I knew it would pique your
          curiosity and conveniently make the
          Enterprise the closest ship to
          Romulus when I contacted Starfleet.

The Reman doctor leaves the cell.  The force field is
reactivated.  The doctor goes to the mysterious medical
apparatus and analyzes Picard's blood.  As:

                     PICARD
          All of this so you could capture
          me?

                     SHINZON
          Don't be so vain.  After we found
          it, we made a few modifications.
          An extra memory port, a hidden
          transponder.  Perhaps your eyes
          will be a bit less confident when
          you learn I've gained access to
          Starfleet's communications
          protocols.  I now know the location
          of your entire fleet...
               (to B-9)
          ... You may go.

                     B-9
          Where?

                     SHINZON
          Out of my sight.

The B-9 obediently leaves the room as:

                     SHINZON
          Maybe I'll train it to do little
          tricks for me like your robot does.
          Or maybe I'll snap its ugly head
          off.

                     PICARD
          What's this all about?

                     SHINZON
          It's about destiny, Picard.  About
          a Reman outcast who --

                     PICARD
          You're not Reman.

                     SHINZON
          And I'm not quite human.  So what
          am I?  What do you see?
               (he peers at Picard
                deeply)
          Do you see a life you might have
          led?  Lost youth never to be
          recaptured?

                     PICARD
          I see a young man trying
          desperately to deny who he is.

                     SHINZON
          I see an old man, set in his ways,
          afraid to live without a uniform to
          prop him up and a Starfleet
          regulation to tell him what to do.
          I see the man I will never be.

                     PICARD
          I won't defend my life to you.

                     SHINZON
          My life is meaningless as long as
          you're alive.  What am I while you
          exist?  A shadow?  An enigma?

                     PICARD
               (stern)
          If your issues are with me... This
          has nothing to do with my ship and
          nothing to do with the Federation.

                     SHINZON
          Oh, but it does.  We will no longer
          bow like slaves before anyone.  Not
          the Romulans and not your mighty
          Federation.  We're a race bred for
          war.  For conquest.

                     PICARD
          Think about what you're doing,
          Shinzon.  Are you ready to plunge
          the entire quadrant into war to
          satisfy your own personal demons?

                     SHINZON
          It amazes me how little you know
          yourself.

                     PICARD
          I'm incapable of such an act, and
          so are you.

                     SHINZON
          I think the facts speak for
          themselves.  The same noble Picard
          blood runs in our veins.  Had you
          lived my life, you'd be doing
          exactly as I am.  Look in the
          mirror, and see yourself.

Shinzon looks at him deeply.

                     SHINZON
          Consider that, Captain.  I can
          think of no greater torment for
          you.

He turns to go.

                     PICARD
          It's a mirror for you as well...

Shinzon turns back to him.

A beat.  Picard gazes at him evenly.

Picard's probing gaze makes Shinzon a bit uneasy.  He glances
to the ghoulish medical preparations.

                     SHINZON
          Not for long, Captain.
               (back to Picard)
          I'm afraid you won't survive to
          witness the victory of the echo
          over the voice.

He goes.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - NIGHT

The ship is on Red Alert.  Worf stands at tactical, muscles
coiled, hungry for action.

                     WORF
          No response to our hails.

Geordi is hard at work at the Science station.  Riker stands
over him:

                     GEORDI
               (frustrated)
          His cloak is perfect... no tachyon
          emissions, no residual antiprotons.

                     RIKER
          Keep at it, Geordi.  Find a way in.

Beverly arrives on the bridge, urgent.  She carries a medical
padd.

                     BEVERLY
          Will, I need to talk to you.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIG - NIGHT

Picard stands in his cell, peering at the edges of the
security force field, trying to spot any weakness.

Then the B-9 enters the brig, he holds a Reman disruptor
weapon.

                     B-9
               (to Reman guard)
          I am to take the prisoner to the
          Praetor.

The Reman Guard deactivates the force field.

                     B-9
          If you resist, I will incapacitate
          you.

He leads Picard out.

INT.  SCIMITAR - CORRIDORS - FOLLOWING

The B-9 leads Picard through the dark corridors, holding the
disruptor on him steadily.  All the Remans they pass glare at
Picard with undisguised loathing.

The Viceroy approaches.  Stops before them.

                     VICEROY
               (to B-9)
          Where are you taking him?

                     B-9
          Praetor Shinzon wants him on the
          bridge.

The Viceroy turns his malevolent gaze on Picard.

                     VICEROY
          So, human... you've met your better
          self!

                     PICARD
          What are you doing to Counsellor
          Troi?

                     VICEROY
          I'm preparing her for Shinzon... To
          sooth him as she soothes you.  To
          stand at his side as she does at
          yours.

                     PICARD
          That will never happen.

                     VICEROY
          Listen to him, android.  Such a
          small and weak creature.  Yet he
          roars so valiantly...
               (he raises one taloned
                claw and puts a sharp
                fingernail on Picard's
                chest)
          It would take me but an instant to
          tear that valiant heart from your
          chest.

                     PICARD
          There'll be another after me.  And
          another after that.  You'll find
          we're a resilient species.

                     VICEROY
          I look forward to the sport.
               (to the B-9, harshly)
          Take him.

The B-9 prods Picard's back roughly with the disruptor.
Picard grimaces in pain

                     B-9
          Move.

The Viceroy continues away down the corridor.  The B-9 leads
Picard along.

                     PICARD
               (whispers)
          Be careful of over-playing your
          part, Commander!

And the audience now realizes it is Data pretending to be the
B-9 and rejoices.

                     DATA
          Sorry, sir.  I thought it added a
          touch of reality to the
          performance.

They are silent as they pass a few Reman guards.  Then:

                     DATA
          My mission was a success, sir.  I
          have discovered the source of the
          Thalaron radiation.

                     PICARD
          Good work.  The download?

                     DATA
          He believes he has our
          communications protocols.  But they
          will give him inaccurate locations
          for all Starfleet vessels.

Data assumes the B-9's posture again as they pass some some
Reman Warriors.

                     DATA
          Move, puny human animal.

They pass the Warriors.

                     PICARD
          A bit less florid, Data.

                     DATA
          Aye, sir... This way.

He leads Picard down the corridor.

INT.  SCIMITAR - GENERATION CHAMBER - NIGHT

Data leads Picard into a massive chamber that soars up like a
cathedral.  It is the size of a small town.

The whole, cavernous chamber pulses with glowing green light.

                     DATA
          This entire ship is, essentially, a
          flying Thalaron generator.
               (he points up)
          All its power relays lead to that
          device.

High above them, at the very top of the chamber, is a
gigantic version of the spider-weapon we saw kill all the
Romulan Senators before.  It is breathtaking.

                     PICARD
          A weapon.

                     DATA
          It would appear so.

Data rotates his left hand and then slides it forward,
exposing a hidden compartment in his wrist.  He removes a
small, silver disc.  This is a cool new piece of Federation
technology called an ETU.  (Emergency Transport Unit.)

                     DATA
          Geordi equipped me with the
          prototype for the Emergency
          Transport Unit.  I recommend you
          use it to return to the Enterprise.

                     PICARD
          It'll only work for one of us.

                     DATA
          Yes, sir.

                     PICARD
          We'll find a way off together.
          Recommendations?

                     DATA
          There is a shuttlebay 948 meters
          from our current location.

Data inserts the ETU back into his wrist and they leave the
chamber.

INT.  SCIMITAR BRIDGE - NIGHT

The Viceroy arrives on the bridge, stops.

                     VICEROY
          Where's Picard?

Shinzon looks at him, confused.

INT.  SCIMITAR - CORRIDORS - NIGHT

Security alert klaxons suddenly begin to howl and harsh Reman
commands are broadcast through the corridors.

                     DATA
          This way, sir!

They sprint down the twisting, dark corridors -- Reman
warriors suddenly appear before them! -- Data fires the
disruptor as Picard launches himself into them --

A fight -- Picard uses a dazzlinq series of Starfleet hand-
to-hand maneuvers -- he dramatically subdues the Remans.

More Reman warriors appear down the corridor.  Picard grabs a
disruptor.

And instantly spins to fire a blazing disruptor.  A battle
breaks out in the corridor -- the energy beams and explosions
illuminating the violent fire fight in strobe-like bursts.

They run to another corridor and finally arrive at the
shuttlebay door -- it does not open.

                     DATA
               (looking at door security
                panel)
          It seems to have an encrypted
          security system.

Reman warriors are closing in on them.

Data tosses his disruptor to Picard -- Picard catches it and
instantly spins and fires -- he uses both disruptors to fire
down both ends of the corridor like a Western sheriff --
keeping the Remans at bay --

As Data uses both hands to punch numbers into the shuttlebay
door security panel at an amazing rate --

                     PICARD
          Alacrity would be appreciated,
          Commander.

                     DATA
          They are trying to override the
          access codes.  Reman is really a
          most complex language with
          pictographs representing certain
          verb roots and --

                     PICARD
          While I find that fascinating,
          Data, we really need that Goddamned
          door open!

The shuttlebay door slides open.

Picard lays down a blistering barrage of cover fire as he and
Data duck into the shuttlebay.

INT.  SCIMITAR - SHUTTLEBAY - FOLLOWING

When the door closes behind them, Picard turns and fires a
disruptor blast -- sealing the door mechanism.

They turn to face...

A fleet of very small shuttles.  They are uniquely designed.
Extremely compact and stream-lined.  A disruptor turret on
each.

They move toward one as:

                     DATA
          According to the ship's manifest
          they are Scorpion-class attack
          fliers.

They quickly climb a Scorpion.

INT.  SCORPION COCKPIT - SHUTTLEBAY - FOLLOWING

The cockpit of the Scorpion is cramped.  Picard climbs into
the pilot's position.  Data assumes the gunner's position.

They see disruptor fire trying to burn through the door to
the shuttlebay -- Picard powers up the Scorpion as:

                     PICARD
               (trying to figure out the
                controls)
          What do you imagine this is?

                     DATA
          Port thrusters, sir.  Would you
          like me to drive?

Picard shoots him a look and presses some controls.  The
Scorpion lifts off.  Hovers a few feet over the deck.  Picard
elegantly swings it around toward the large shuttlebay
external doors as:

                     PICARD
          Can you open the shuttlebay doors?

                     DATA
               (working controls)
          Affirmative, sir.  Negative, sir.
          They have instigated security
          overrides and erected a force field
          around the external portals.

                     PICARD
          Well then... only one way to go.

He swings the Scorpion around again so it is facing the doors
they came through, the doors back into the ship.

Data is dubious.

                     DATA
          Do you think this is a wise course
          of action?

                     PICARD
          We're about to find out... Power up
          disruptors and fire on my mark.

                     DATA
          Ready, Captain.

                     PICARD
          Fire!

And the Scorpion's forward disruptors fire!  The doors into
the ship explode!  Picard powers forward!

INT.  SCIMITAR CORRIDORS - FOLLOWING

And the Scorpion shoots into the corridor, past the stunned
Remans.  Picard banks sharply -- careens off the far side of
the corridor but keeps control.

The Scorpion zooms down the corridor.

INT.  SCORPION COCKPIT - SCIMITAR - FOLLOWING

Picard is concentrating intensely -- it is like trying to
control the world's fastest roller coaster.

INT.  SCIMITAR - CORRIDORS - FOLLOWING

The Scorpion banks around a corner --it zigs and zags through
the ship at breakneck speed --

INT.  SCIMITAR - OBSERVATION LOUNGE - NIGHT

The doors to the observation lounge EXPLODE in.

The Scorpion SHOOTS into the room and up --

A disruptor blast SHATTERS the etched glass dome at the top
of the room --

And the Scorpion ZOOMS triumphantly into space!

EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - SPACE

The Scorpion seems to appear from nowhere -- slicing through
the cloak of invisibility around the Scimitar --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The crew sees the Scorpion appear on the viewscreen.

                     RIKER
          Worf!  Lock on transporters!

INT.  SCIMITAR BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon sees the Scorpion as well.

                     SHINZON
          Tractor beam!  Now!

EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - SPACE

But they are too late -- the Scorpion dematerializes --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - CARGO BAY - FOLLOWING

And materializes in one of the Enterprise's cargo bays.
Picard and Data climb out --

                     PICARD
               (to comm)
          Number One, emergency warp!

EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - FOLLOWING

The Enterprise dramatically powers forward and up -- rolling
over in a great arc going into warp while still upside down.
It disappears in a blaze of light.  Fade to...

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - NIGHT

Shinzon sits in his command chair as the ship streaks through
space.  He speaks on viewscreen with his Romulan
collaborators.  His face is even more finely veined now.

                     SHINZON
          The Enterprise is immaterial!  They
          won't make it back to Federation
          space.

                     SURAN (ON VIEWSCREEN)
               (angry)
          This has gone far enough!

                     SHINZON
          I thought we discussed patience,
          Commander.

                     SURAN (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          And mine is wearing thin, young
          man!  We supported you because you
          promised action.  And yet you delay
          and you waste your time playing
          games with Picard while --

Shinzon stands and briskly pulls down his uniform tunic 
exactly as we've seen Picard do a thousand times.

                     SHINZON
          Commander Suran, the games are
          over.  In two days the Federation
          will be crippled beyond repair.
          Does that satisfy you?

                     SURAN (ON VIEWSCREEN)
               (grim)
          For the moment.

                     SHINZON
               (brutal)
          And when I return... you and I
          shall have a little talk about
          showing proper respect!

INT.  ROMULAN SENATE - CHAMBER - FOLLOWING

The viewscreen picture of Shinzon snaps out.  The Romulan sit
for a silent beat.

                     DONATRA
          Does anyone in this room harbor any
          illusions about what he means by
          "showing proper respect"?

                     TAL'AURA
          What's happening to his face?

                     SURAN
          I want opinions.  He is clearly out
          of his mind.

                     SURAN
          But can he complete his mission?

                     DONATRA
          Should he?

They look at her.

                     DONATRA
          Are you prepared to have your hands
          drenched in blood?  He'll show them
          no mercy.  And his sins will mark
          us all for generations.  Is that
          what you truly want, Romulans?

A beat.

                     DONATRA
          I think you should consider that
          question now -- or else you may
          have a lifetime to think about it
          in the dilithium mines.

She turns and stalks out.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - READY ROOM - NIGHT

Beverly sits with Picard and Riker.

                     BEVERLY
          The more I studied his DNA the more
          confusing it got.  Finally I could
          only come to one conclusion...
          Shinzon was created with temporal
          RNA sequencing.  He was designed so
          that at a certain point his aging
          process could be accelerated to
          reach your age more quickly, so he
          could replace you.

                     PICARD
          But the Romulans abandoned the
          plan...

                     BEVERLY
          As a result the temporal sequencing
          was never activated.  Remember, he
          was supposed to replace you at
          nearly your current age.  He was
          engineered to skip thirty years of
          life.  But since the RNA sequencing
          was never activated, his cellular
          structure has started to break
          down.  He's dying.

                     PICARD
          Dying?

                     RIKER
          He wasn't designed to live a
          complete, human life span.

                     PlCARD
          Can anything be done for him?

                     BEVERLY
          Not without a complete
          myelodysplastic infusion from the
          only donor with compatible DNA.
          But that would mean draining all
          your blood.

                     RIKER
          That's why he went to all that
          trouble to capture you.

                     PlCARD
          How long does he have?

                     BEVERLY
          I can't be sure but the rate of
          decay seems to be accelerating.

Picard considers this.

                     PICARD
          Then he'll come for me as a donor.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - DATA'S CABIN - NIGHT

Data stands before the B-9.

The B-9 has been deactivated, he stands lifeless and
immobile.  Data gazes deeply into his double's identical
features.  Then he opens a panel in the B-9's neck and uses a
small instrument to activate the android's head.

The B-9's eyes spring to life.  He looks at Data.

                     B-9
          Brother.  I cannot move.

                     DATA
          No, I have only activated your
          cognitive and communication
          subroutines.

                     B-9
          Why?

                     DATA
          Because you are dangerous.

                     B-9
          Why?

                     DATA
          You have been programmed to gather
          information that can be used
          against this ship.

                     B-9
          I do not understand.

                     DATA
          I know.

A beat.

                     DATA
          Do you know anything about
          Shinzon's plans against the
          Federation?

                     B-9
          No.

                     DATA
          Do you have any knowledge of the
          tactical abilities of his ship?

                     B-9
          No.  Can I move now?

                     DATA
          No.  I must deactivate you.

                     B-9
          For how long?

                     DATA
          Indefinitely.

                     B-9
          How long is that?

A beat.  Data gazes at the B-9 deeply.

                     DATA
          A long time, brother.

Data reaches forward and deactivates his brother.

The B-9's eyes lose the spark of life.  He stands, frozen.
Data stands before him.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - OBSERVATION LOUNGE - NIGHT

Picard is gathered with his senior officers.

A computer display illustrates Geordi's words about the power
of Shinzon's weapon.  We see a chilling graphic of the
Biogenic Pulse beam spreading around a ship, then a whole
planet.

                     GEORDI
          It's called a Cascading Biogenic
          Pulse.  The unique properties of
          Thalaron radiation allow the energy
          beam to expand almost without
          limits.  Depending on the radiant
          intensity it could encompass a
          ship... or a planet.

                     PICARD
               (thinking)
          And that's exactly what he's going
          to do.

                     RIKER
          Sir?

                     PICARD
          His hatred of the Federation is
          apparent.  He would have built a
          weapon of that scope for one
          reason.  He is going after Earth.

                     RIKER
          Oh boy.  Destroy humanity and the
          Federation is crippled...

                     PICARD
          And the Romulans invade.

                     DEANNA
          How can you be certain?

                     PICARD
          I know how he thinks.

A beat.

                     RIKER
               (to Geordi)
          And there's no way to penetrate his
          cloak?

                     GEORDI
          No, sir.

                     RIKER
               (frustrated)
          He could pass within 10 meters of
          every ship in Starfleet and they'd
          never know.

                     BEVERLY
          But we do have one advantage.
               (to Picard)
          He needs your blood to live.  He
          might come after you first.

                     PICARD
          I'm counting on it... We've been
          ordered to head to sector 3274.
          Starfleet is diverting the fleet to
          meet us there.

                     RIKER
          Strength in numbers?

                     PICARD
          We can only hope so.

A beat as he looks at them gravely.

                     PICARD
          He can't be allowed to use that
          weapon.  All other concerns are
          secondary.  Do you understand me?

Riker knows exactly what Picard is saying: the Enterprise is
expendable.

                     RIKER
          Yes, sir.

Picard stands.  Presses a comm button.

                     PICARD
          All hands.  Battle stations.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - VARIOUS ANGLES

We see a montage of the Enterprise preparing for battle.

Crew members assume battle stations.  Weapons locker ring
open and Security Officers hand out sidearms and phaser
rifles.

Geordi and his Engineers establish emergency force field
around the warp core.

Riker and Worf brief officers on tactical plans...

Data works at the bridge Science Station, analyzing data on
Shinzon's ship.

Picard walks through the corridors, he stops to talk with
apprehensive young ensign.

As we hear:

                     PICARD (V.O.)
          Captain's Personal Log.
          Supplemental.  We're heading toward
          Federation space at maximum warp.
          The crew has responded with the
          dedication I've come to expect of
          them.  And like a thousand other
          commanders on a thousand other
          battlefields throughout history, I
          wait for the dawn.

The montage ends as...

INT.  ENTERPRISE - SICKBAY - NIGHT

Picard enters sickbay.

Dr. Crusher and her medical staff are hard at work.  They
position anti-grav gurneys and ready medical supplies.
Security officers are handing out phasers.

Picard watches the grim preparations.  Beverly goes to him,
bolstering her phaser.

                     PICARD
               (quietly)
          To seek out new life and new
          civilizations.  Zephyr Cochran's
          own words.  When Charles Darwin set
          out on the H.M.S. Beagle, on his
          journey into the unknown... he
          sailed without a single musket.

                     BEVERLY
               (gently)
          That was another time.

                     PICARD
          How far we've come.  Let me know if
          you need anything.

He starts to go --

                     BEVERLY
          Jean Luc...
               (he stops)
          ... He is not you.

A beat.

                     PICARD
          What makes us who we are, Doctor?
          Can you tell me that?

She watches him go.

INT.  SCIMITAR BRIDGE - NIGHT

Shinzon sits in his command chair, lined with veins now.
His Viceroy again has his hand pressed to Shinzon's chest.

                     SHINZON
          How long?

                     VICEROY
          A matter of hours now --

Shinzon shoves him away.  Stands.

                     VICEROY
          If you don't begin the procedure
          soon you'll never make it back to
          Romulus.  You shouldn't have
          delayed.  You should have killed
          Picard the moment --

Shinzon slams his command chair in fury.  The Viceroy watches
him carefully.

A beat.  Shinzon regains his composure.  He sits again in his
command chair.

                     SHINZON
          How long until we reach the Rift?

                     VICEROY
               (checks a console)
          Seven minutes.

Shinzon leans back, satisfied.  And looks at the viewscreen.

The image on the viewscreen is shocking.

The Enterprise only a few hundred yards away.

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - SPACE

The Enterprise zooms through space.

Completely unaware of the predator directly above it.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - ASTROMETRICS - NIGHT

Data is at work in Astrometry.  Cartographic projections of
star systems ebb and flow on a large screen before him.
Picard enters.

                     PICARD
          Show me our current position.

The images before them quickly change to show another sector
and a blip representing the Enterprise.

                     PICARD
          How long until we reach the fleet?

                     DATA
          At our current velocity we will
          arrive at sector 3274 in
          approximately 40 minutes.

The images before them change to show sector 3274.  We see
blips denoting Starfleet ships moving into position.
Picard gazes at the projection of stars before them for a
moment.

                     PICARD
               (quietly)
          "For now we see but through a glass
          darkly..."  He said he's a mirror.

                     DATA
          Of you?

                     PICARD
          Yes.

                     DATA
          I do not agree.  Although you share
          the same genetic structure, the
          events of your life have created
          unique individual.

                     PICARD
          But so much is the same.  On a
          biological level he is... and I
          will not accept the idea that there
          is nothing I can do.  I have a
          responsibility to try to make a
          human connection with him.

                     DATA
          He would deny a "human" connection
          is possible.  He considers himself
          entirely Reman.

                     PICARD
          He may have already rejected my
          humanity, but you also have a twin.

                     DATA
          No, sir, it is not possible.  The
          B-9 is physically identical to me,
          although his neural pathways are
          not as advanced.  But even if they
          were, he would not be me.

                     PICARD
          How can you be sure?

                     DATA
          I aspire, sir.  To be better than I
          am.  The B-9 does not.  Nor does
          Shinzon.

A beat.

                     PICARD
          We'll never know what Shinzon might
          have been.  Had he stood where I
          did as a child?  And looked up at
          the stars.

Picard's words linger in the air for a moment.

Then the projections before them sputter with static for a
moment.  Flickering.

                     DATA
               (working controls)
          We are passing through the Bassen
          Rift.  The projections will return
          when we have cleared it.

                     PICARD
          It's interfering with our uplink
          from Starfleet cartography?

                     DATA
          Yes, sir.  The Rift effects all
          long-range communications --

                     PICARD
                (urgent, to comm)
          Commander Riker, evasive maneuvers!

Too late.

The ship QUAKES -- a photon torpedo blast -- the Enterprise
is under attack!

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

Disruptor beams appear from nowhere -- streaking through
space -- slamming into the Enterprise's warp drive.  The
Enterprise recoils, dangerously dropping out of warp in a
furious lurch.

The Bassen Rift is a strange area of electromagnetic
distortion.  Energy patterns crackle through space.

INT.  SCIMITAR BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon sits in his command chair.  The viewscreen shows the
Enterprise before him.

                     SHINZON
          Target weapons systems and shields.
          I don't want the Enterprise
          destroyed.

On the viewscreen, we see disruptor blasts streaking from the
Scimitar -- slicing into the Enterprise.

                     SHINZON
          Can you learn to see in the dark,
          Captain?

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard and Data emerge from the turbolift as the ship
ROCKS --

                     PICARD
          Report.

                     RIKER
          He's firing through his cloak.  We
          can't get a lock.

                     GEORDI
               (at engineering station)
          He disabled our warp drive with his
          first shot.  We've only got
          impulse.

                     WORF
          Long range communication is
          impossible as long as we're in the
          rift --

The ship SHUDDERS again --

                     PICARD
          Worf, prepare a full phaser spread,
          zero elevation.  All banks on my
          mark.  Scan for shield impacts and
          stand by photon torpedoes.

                     WORF
          Aye, sir

The ship ROCKS again.

                     PICARD
          Fire!

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The Enterprise fires her phasers simultaneously -- the energy
beams shoot into space --

And the Scimitar's shape is momentarily illuminated as one of
its shields is hit.

Photon torpedoes immediately shoot from the Enterprise -- but
pass harmlessly through the area where the Scimitar's shields
were momentarily illuminated.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

                     SHINZON
          You're too slow, old man.
               (entering commands in his
                chair console)
          Attack pattern Shinzon Theta.

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The invisible Warbird makes a dramatic run straight over the
Enterprise -- firing steadily down as it sweeps past it; is a
brutal, close range assault --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The bridge SHAKES violently under the ruthless attack--

                     DATA
          We are losing dorsal shields --

                     PICARD
          Full axis rotation to port!  Fire
          all ventral phasers!

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The Enterprise instantly complies -- Rolling completely over
to the left, firing phasers up as Shinzon's invisible ship
streaks above it --

A few lucky phaser shots from the bottom of the Enterprise --
now shooting upward -- manage to momentarily illuminate the
bottom shields of the Scimitar as it sweeps past above.

INT.  ENTERPRISE BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

                     WORF
          Minimal damage to the Scimitar.

                     RIKER
               (to Helm)
          Defensive pattern Kirk Epsilon.
          Geordi, get those shields online.

                     PICARD
               (to comm)
          Counselor Troi, report to the
          bridge.

                     RIKER
          Unless we can disable his cloak
          we're just going to be firing in
          the dark.

                     PlCARD
          Agreed.

                     WORF
          Sir, we're being hailed.

                     PICARD
          On screen.

Shinzon appears on the viewscreen.  He is on the bridge of
the Scimitar.

                     SHINZON (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          Captain Picard, will you join me in
          your Ready Room?

INT.  ENTERPRISE - READY ROOM

Picard stands in his Ready Room.  A flickering light shimmers
across the room.  And a perfect holographic representation of
Shinzon appears before him.

                     SHINZON
          You can't trace my holographic
          emitters, Captain.  So don't
          bother.  And you can't contact
          Starfleet.  We're quite alone.

                     PICARD
          We are.

                     SHINZON
          It's just the two of us now, Jean
          Luc, as it should be... Your ship
          and mine... You and me.

                     PICARD
          Why are you here?

                     SHINZON
          To accept your surrender.  I can
          clearly destroy you at any time.
          Lower your shields and allow me to
          transport you to my ship.

                     PICARD
          And what of the Enterprise?

                     SHINZON
          I have little interest in your
          quaint vessel, Captain.  If the
          Enterprise will withdraw to a
          distance of one hundred light
          years, it will not be harmed.

                     PICARD
          You know that's not possible.

                     SHINZON
          I know... you'll all gladly die to
          save your home world.

                     PICARD
               (intense)
          Look at me, Shinzon!  Do you feel
          the blood pumping inside you?  Your
          hands, your eyes, your nature, are
          the same as mine.  Buried deep
          inside you beneath the years of
          pain and anger is a capacity you've
          forgotten.  It's the one way our
          mirror can reflect the two of us
          exactly because it's the very thing
          that truly defines us.  To be human
          is to try to make yourself better
          than you are.

Picard looks at him deeply, relentlessly refusing to give up.

                     PICARD
          I know you as well as I know
          myself, Shinzon.  There was a time
          you looked at the stars and dreamed
          of what might be.

                     SHINZON
               (quietly)
          Long ago.

                     PICARD
          Not so long.

                     SHINZON
          Childish dreams, Captain.  Lost in
          the dilithium mines of Remus.  I'm
          what you see now.

                     PICARD
          I see more than what you are.

Picard steps toward him.

                     PICARD
          I see what you could be.

Shinzon slowly backs away as Picard continues to move toward
him relentlessly.

                     PICARD
          The man who is Jean Luc Picard and
          Shinzon of Remus won't exterminate
          the population of an entire planet!
          He is better than that!

                     SHINZON
               (desperate)
          He is what his life has made him!

Shinzon is in turmoil.  Picard senses this.  He proceeds
quietly:

                     PICARD
          And what will he do with that life?

Shinzon looks at him, questioning.

                     PICARD
          If I were to beam to your ship...
          let you complete your medical
          procedure, give you a full life...
          what would you do with the time?

Shinzon doesn't respond.

                     PICARD
          You once asked me about your past.
          Your history.  When I was your age,
          I burned with ambition.  I was very
          proud and my pride often hurt
          people.  I made every wrong choice
          a young man can... But one thing
          saved me... I had a father who
          believed in me.  Who took the time
          to teach me a better way.  You have
          the same father.

                     SHINZON
          Yes.

                     PICARD
          So if I gave you my life, what
          would you do with it?  Would you
          spend the years in a blaze of
          hatred as you are now?  Or could
          you change?  Could you try to
          remember a mother's touch you never
          felt?  A father's words you never
          heard?  Could you do that?

                     SHINZON
               (quietly)
          I don't know.

                     PICARD
          But you want to.

Shinzon doesn't respond.  But Picard knows he has made a
connection.  For this brief moment reconciliation is
possible.  He proceeds quietly:

                     PICARD
          Let me tell you about our father.

Shinzon looks at him with an aching sadness.  What might have
been.

                     SHINZON
          That's your life... not mine.

                     PICARD
          Please.

                     SHINZON
          It's too late.

                     PICARD
          You can still make a choice!  Make
          the right one now!

                     SHINZON
          I have no choices!  I can't fight
          what I am!

Shinzon backs away, unable to fight his nature:

                     SHINZON
          I'll show you my true nature.  Your
          nature.  And as Earth dies --
          remember that I'm forever Shinzon
          of Remus!  And my voice will echo
          through time long after yours has
          faded to a dim memory.

Shinzon ends the transmission and his holographic image
flickers and fades away.

Picard stands alone, drained.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon strides quickly to his command chair, barking to his
Viceroy:

                     SHINZON
          Disable their weapons!

But before the Viceroy can move the Scimitar suddenly ROCKS
-- attacked from somewhere!  Shinzon is stunned.

                     SHINZON
          Report!

                     REMAN OFFICER
          Two ships decloaking, sir!
          Romulan!

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard strides to his command chair as two Romulan Warbirds
appear on the viewscreen.  Deanna is now on the bridge.

                     RIKER
          Believe it or not, I think the
          cavalry has arrived.

                     WORF
          We're being hailed.

                     PICARD
          On screen.

On the viewscreen: Commander Donatra shimmers into view.

                     DONATRA (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          Captain Picard, Commander Donatra
          of the Warbird Valdore.  Might we
          be of assistance?

                     PICARD
          Your timing is impeccable,
          Commander.

                     DONATRA (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          The Empire considers this a matter
          of internal security.  We regret
          you've become involved.

                     PICARD
          When this is over, I owe you a
          drink.

On the viewscreen, the Valdore ROCKS from a disruptor blast.

                     DONATRA (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          Romulan ale, Captain.  Let's get to
          work.  Valdore out.

The transmission ends.

                     PICARD
               (to Worf)
          You heard the lady.  Get to work.
          Move your ass!

(The Romulan Warbirds must remain decloaked to fire weapons
and are visible throughout the battle.)

Although Shinzon's ship is still cloaked, the steady barrage
of triangulated phaser and disruptor fire from the Enterprise
and the two Romulan vessels illuminate its shields with
impacts.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

                     PICARD
               (to Worf)
          Coordinate our attack with the
          Valdore's tactical officer.
          Triangulate fire on any shield
          impacts.

                     WORF
          Aye, sir.

The Enterprise ROCKS from a photon torpedo impact --

                     DATA
          Aft shields are down to forty
          percent.

                     RIKER
               (to Helm)
          Keep our bow to the Scimitar.
          Auxiliary power to forward shields.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon sits quite calmly in his command chair.

                     SHINZON
          Target the flanking Warbird.  All
          forward disruptor banks on my mark.

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

It is a chaos of starships as the Enterprise and the two
Warbirds fire steadily -- illuminating the Scimitar's
shields.

The ships sweep around one another, maneuvering for position,
firing constantly.  The battlefield seems impossibly crowded
as the four vessels evade and attack; as phaser and disruptor
beams criss-cross space.

Then the Scimitar unleashes a devastating volley... all her
forward disruptor banks fire at once --

They literally cut one of the Romulan ships in half -- a huge
EXPLOSION -- debris SHOOTS across space and SLAMS VIOLENTLY
off the Enterprise's forward shields -- !

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The ship ROCKS dangerously!

                     DATA
          Forward shields are down to ten
          percent.

                     RIKER
               (to Helm)
          Bring us about!

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The Enterprise quickly turns about -- firing her aft phasers,
as the Valdore sweeps toward Shinzon's ship, firing --

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

                     SHINZON
          Let her pursue -- drop cloak on the
          aft port quadrant and prepare for
          full emergency stop.

                     VICEROY
               (startled)
          What?!

                     SHINZON
          You heard me.

INT.  VALDORE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Donatra leans forward in her command chair, looking at
viewscreen.  She sees part of the Scimitar's rear cloakning
fall away --

                     DONATRA
          She's losing her cloak!  Stand by
          all forward disruptor banks!

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

                     VICEROY
          She's almost on us.

                     SHINZON
          Not yet.

On the viewscreen  we see the Valdore in pursuit, gaining.
The Reman crew is getting nervous.

                     VICEROY
          Praetor...

                     SHINZON
          FULL STOP AND FIRE !

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The Scimitar LURCHES to a stop!  Too fast for the Valdore to
respond in time -- it flies over the Scimitar --

And the Scimitar fires!

A devastating volley of photon torpedoes rip into the
underbelly and aft of the Valdore as it streaks past --

The Valdore careens out of control and then slows to a stop.
It floats dead in space.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

                     SHINZON
          Restore the aft cloak.and bring us
          about.

He leans back in his command chair, ready for the final
battle.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

A bloody Commander Donatra is talking to Picard on
viewscreen.  Her bridge is in ruins.

                     DONATRA (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          I'm afraid that drink will have to
          wait, Captain.

                     PICARD
          Do you have life support?

                     DONATRA (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          For the moment.  But we're dead in
          the water.

                     PICARD
          Understood --

Then the ship ROCKS --

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The invisible Scimitar sweeps past for a particularly brutal
assault -- disruptor blasts streak along the Enterprise's
hull -- a huge, ripping series of explosions tear away
several decks of the Enterprise --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

                     DATA
          We have lost structural integrity
          on decks twelve through seventeen,
          sections four through ten.

                     GEORDI
          Emergency force fields are holding.

                     RIKER
          Evacuate those decks and reroute
          field power to forward shields.

Deanna goes to Picard:

                     DEANNA
          Captain -- I might have a way to
          find them.

                     PICARD
          Counselor?

                     DEANNA
          The one thing he may have forgotten
          in the course of battle: me.

                     PICARD
          Make it so.

She quickly goes to Worf at tactical.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - NIGHT

Shinzon is entering tactical commands in his chair console.

                     SHINZON
          Prepare a lateral run -- all
          starboard disruptors.

Then the viceroy suddenly stiffens, alarm in his eyes --

                     VICEROY
          No!

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Deanna concentrates furiously, eyes closed.  She stands with
Worf, her hand slowly moving his over the photon torpedo
targeting display.

It is a wrenching experience as she probes with her thoughts.

                     DEANNA
          He's resisting me.

She is in pain.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The Viceroy concentrates, trying to block her probing
thoughts.

                     SHINZON
          What is it?!  Focus on your job!!!

                     VICEROY
          She is here.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Deanna continues to move Worf's hand over the targeting
display.  She is sweating, panting for breath, concentrating
fiercely.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The Viceroy resists her -- their psyches lock in battle.
Deanna appears in the Viceroy's mind, she glares at him.

                     DEANNA
          Remember me?

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Her eyes snap open --

                     DEANNA
          NOW!

Worf instantly fires a full volley of photon torpedoes.

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

A full spread of photon torpedoes shoot through space.

And connect!  A series of devastating impacts -- and the
Scimitar's cloak fails!

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard stands quickly.

                     PICARD
          Savage them!

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

And the Enterprise attacks!

It fires all weapons simultaneously -- phasers and photon
torpedoes slam into the Scimitar!  Shinzon's ship responds
quickly -- maneuvering for position and returning fire!

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The bridge has been damaged, sparks sputter through the
darkness and debris litters the deck.

Shinzon eyes reflect a growing sense of desperation.

                     SHINZON
               (spinning to his Viceroy)
          Prepare a boarding party -- BRING
          ME PICARD!

The viceroy strides out as Shinzon spins to another officer.

                     SHINZON
          Get the cloak back!  And target
          shield coordinates beta three.  All
          disruptors.  Fire!

On the viewscreen, we see disruptor beams focusing on a tiny
part of the Enterprise's lower shields, slamming into them.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - NIGHT

                     DATA
          Captain, we have lost ventral
          shielding on deck twenty nine.

                     PICARD
          Divert power and compensate --

An alarm klaxon suddenly rings through the bridge.

                     WORF
          Intruder alert!

                     RIKER
          Let's go.

Riker and Worf quickly head toward the turbolift as:

                     WORF
               (to comm)
          Security detail to deck twenty
          nine.

Data immediately assumes Worf's position at tactical.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - LOWER DECKS - NIGHT

Riker and Worf stride with a SECURITY DETAIL through the
cramped lower decks.

A sudden disruptor blast stops them cold!  The Viceroy and
his invasion force of a dozen Reman Warriors are down the
corridor!

The Enterprise crew returns fire.  It is a blazing phaser
battle, Worf leading his men with Klingon courage.  They
steadily advance in the face of the blistering disruptor
fire --

They are getting the upper hand when Riker sees the Viceroy
escape into a Jefferies tube --

                     RIKER
          Worf.

Worf instantly dives into the corridor -- landing hard and
sliding forward on his stomach all the while firing a steady
burst from his phaser rifle.

Riker uses the cover to dive after the Viceroy, following him
into the dark Jefferies tube, intent on destroying the man
who has been tormenting his wife --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The Scimitar sweeps into view on the viewscreen -- filling
the screen -- and launches a ferocious volley of photon
torpedoes.

A huge EXPLOSION as the viewscreen and some of the forward
bridge are BLOWN APART -- the Helm Officer is SUCKED INTO
SPACE before a flickering emergency force field springs into
position --

Deanna races to assume the helm --

Picard can now see his enemy directly through the gaping hole
in the ship's hull -- he sees the Scimitar banking for
another attack run as part of the ship disappears --

                     GEORDI
          He's getting his cloak back.  We
          have exhausted our compliment of
          photon torpedoes.  Phaser banks are
          down to four percent.

                     PICARD
          What if we target all phasers in a
          concentrated attack?

                     DATA
          The Scimitar's shields are still at
          seventy percent.  It would make no
          difference, sir.

Picard thinks.

                     DEANNA
          They're stopping...

Through the hole in the hull, Picard sees the Scimitar slowly
turning.  Slowly advancing.  They see another part of the
Scimitar disappear, the cloak returning.

                     GEORDI
          What's he doing?

                     PICARD
               (grim)
          He wants to look me in the eye.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - JEFFERIES TUBE - FOLLOWING

Below decks, Riker stalks the Viceroy through a labyrinthine
series of access tunnels.  It is like a scene from ALIEN.

The flickering half-light and red emergency strobes of the
crippled ship make this an ominous sequence.  The Viceroy is
in his element, used to the perpetual night of the Reman
Homeworld, he can see in the dark.

Riker moves through the darkness, hunting for the Viceroy.
He stops, phaser ready.  He peers into the dark tunnel ahead
of him.  Sees nothing.  We tilt up and see...

The Viceroy clinging to the ceiling directly above Riker!
Hidden in the darkness.  The Viceroy attacks! -- diving down
on Riker -- his lethal Reman knife slashing through the
darkness --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard stands... watching the Scimitar maneuver into
position.  Large parts of it are now cloaked.

It stops.  Only a few hundred yards from the Enterprise, its
great prow almost filling the gaping hole at the front of the
bridge.

Picard thinks, his mind racing.  Then it comes to him in a
flash:

                     PICARD
          He thinks he knows exactly what I'm
          going to do...

                     GEORDI
          Sir?

                     PICARD
          We've got him!

He sits in his command chair and begins quickly entering
command instructions in his chair console.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon, supremely confident, leans back in his command
chair.

                     SHINZON
          Open a channel.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard is still entering commands in his chair console.

                     DATA
          We are being hailed.

                     PICARD
          Deanna, stand by.
               (to Data)
          Open a channel.

                     SHINZON (V.O.)
          I hope you're still alive, Jean
          Luc.

                     PICARD
          I am.

                     SHINZON (V.O.)
          Don't you think it's time to
          surrender?  I'll have my cloak back
          in a matter of minutes and your
          poor ship is shot to pieces.  Why
          should the rest of your crew have
          to die?

Picard continues to enter command codes -- transmits them to
Deanna at helm -- she receives the commands, nods.  All of
this as Picard buys some time:

                     PICARD
          I never told you about my first
          Academy evaluation, did I?  I
          received very high marks for my
          studies.  But I was found lacking
          in certain other areas.
          Personality traits, you might say.
          In particular I was thought to be
          extremely...
               (he glares up at the prow
                of the Scimitar)
          ... over-confident.

Picard indicates for Data to end the communication.  Then:

                     PICARD
               (quickly)
          Geordi, put 211 power to the
          engines.  Take it from life support
          if you have to -- everything you
          can give me.

                     GEORDI
          Aye, sir.

                     PICARD
          Deanna, on my mark.

                     GEORDI
          Ready, sir!

Picard leans forward in his chair:

                     PICARD
               (on comm)
          All hands, brace for impact!
               (to Deanna)
          ENGAGE.

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The Enterprise powers forward in a final thrust -- !

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon sees it coming -- utterly shocked -- bolts up --

                     SHINZON
          HARD TO PORT !

Too late.

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

A massive COLLISION as the Enterprise SLAMS into the Scimitar
-- as it SMASHES and GRINDS into Shinzon's ship --

The Scimitar REELS --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Everyone goes FLYING!

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The two great ships are now locked together, slowly rotating
in space.

The forward part of the Enterprise's saucer is enmeshed in
Shinzon's ship; two scorpions with their claws locked.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon stands in the ruins of his bridge.  Many of his
bridge crew are now dead.

                     SHINZON
          Divert all power to engines.  Full
          reverse!

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

Every part of the Enterprise ROCKS -- a great lurch as the
Scimitar begins to tear itself free -- backing away -- a
deafening shriek of metal -- both ships are being torn to
pieces in the process -- but it is working -- the Scimitar
is ripping free, wrenching itself loose.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - JEFFERIES TUBES - FOLLOWING

The Jefferies tube SHUDDERS as the Scimitar continues to tear
itself free -- Riker and the Viceroy careen through the tube.
The Viceroy recovers quickly and coils for a final attack.
Riker sees that an access plate has been loosened in the
collision -- he desperately rips it away -- knowing the
relays behind will provide him with the advantage he needs --

Bright light strobes from the relays and the Viceroy is
momentarily blinded -- Riker uses this opportunity to attack!
He dives forward -- slamming into the Viceroy -- they both
tumble into a long, vertical access tunnel -- they fall!

Riker shoots out a hand and grabs a ladder -- the Viceroy,
grabs onto Riker, his talons digging into his uniform -- a
long drop below them!

Riker forces the Viceroy's head back -- away from him -- a
brutal struggle --

Riker glares at him.

                     RIKER
          Don't worry -- Hell is dark.

Riker uses every ounce of strength he has left -- pushes the
Viceroy off him --

The Viceroy falls down the long tunnel -- to his death.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The whole Enterprise bridge QUAKES as the Scimitar continues
to pull itself free --

Picard stands, steadying himself on his command chair.

                     PICARD
          Data, I need you.

Data joins Picard as:

                     PICARD
          Computer.  Auto-destruct sequence
          Omega.  Zero time delay.  Recognize
          voice pattern Jean Luc Picard.
          Authorization Alpha Alpha Three
          Zero Five --

                     COMPUTER (V.O.)
          Auto-destruct is off-line.

Then the ship gives a final LURCH.  The Scimitar is free.

An eerie moment of silence after the explosive tearing and
grinding.

Picard watches through the gaping hole in the hull as the
Scimitar backs away.  Another section of the Scimitar
disappears.  Shinzon almost has his cloak back.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon stares at the Enterprise.

A wave of sickness overcomes him for a moment, he doubles
over.  We actually see more veins appearing on his face.
Time is running out.

                     SHINZON
          Target disruptors.  Destroy them.

                     REMAN OFFICER
          Disruptors are off-line, sir.

A beat.  Shinzon looks up.

                     SHINZON
          Deploy the weapon.  Kill everything
          on that ship.  Then set a course
          for Earth.

                     REMAN OFFICER
          What about Picard?

                     SHINZON
          Our greater goal is more important,
          brother.

                     REMAN OFFICER
          But, Praetor, you won't survive
          without him...

Shinzon gazes at the Enterprise on the viewscreen.

                     SHINZON
          Some ideals are worth dying for,
          aren't they, Jean Luc?

EXT.  RIFT - SPACE

The entire Scimitar slowly begins to unfold.  Like a gigantic
version of the small spider-weapon we saw kill the Romulan
Senators before, legs appear and hoist up a savage weapon.
The Cascading Pulse.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard and the others watch the monstrous Cascading Pulse
weapon slowly deploying.

                     PICARD
          How long until he can fire?

                     GEORDI
          The targeting sequence should take
          about four minutes.

                     DEANNA
          But how can he?  He'll kill you.

                     PICARD
          This isn't about me anymore.

Picard's face is set, resolute.  He knows what he must do.
Picard grabs a phaser rifle from a weapons locker as...

                     PICARD
          Prepare for a site-to-site
          transport.

                     GEORDI
               (concerned)
          Sir, we won't be able to bring you
          back.  It's a one way trip.
          Captain, I don't know if the
          transporter --

                     PICARD
          That's an order, Commander.

                     DATA
          Sir, allow me to go.  You are
          needed here.

                     PICARD
          Negative.

                     DATA
          Sir...

Deanna takes Data's arm.  Looks at him.  She knows this is
something Picard must do himself.

                     DEANNA
          Let him go.

Picard powers up the phaser rifle as:

                     PICARD
               (to Data)
          You have the bridge, Commander.
          Use all available power to move
          away from the Scimitar.
               (to Geordi)
          Now, Mister La Forge.

                     GEORDI
          Aye, sir.

Geordi nervously works some controls on his console and
Picard dematerializes.  Then the transporter panel explodes
in a shower of sparks.

                     GEORDI
          That's it.  Transporters are down.

Data thinks for a moment.  Then:

                     DATA
          Counsellor Troi, please assume
          command.  Geordi, if you will come
          with me.

He heads toward the turbolift, Geordi following.

INT.  SCIMITAR - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Several Remen warriors in the corridor turn and fire.  Riker
returns fire, a series of lightning fast pulses from his
phaser rifle.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - FORWARD CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Data and Geordi stand in a long corridor.  The far end of the
corridor opens to space.  An emergency force field is in
place at the end of the corridor.

Geordi operates a tricorder and another force field flickers
on around him.

Data looks toward the end of the corridor, readying himself.

                     DATA
          What is our approximate distance?

                     GEORDI
               (scans with tricorder)
          400 meters.

                     DATA
          Thank you.

Data backs up a little more   He looks at Geordi again.
Deeply.

                     DATA
          Thank you, Geordi.  Deactivate the
          field.

Geordi operates his tricorder and the force field at the end
of the corridor snaps off --

The void of space fills the corridor and Data takes a running
start -- he races down the long corridor and leaps --

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

-- into space.

He floats toward the Scimitar, his momentum carrying him.
Carrying him too far!

He is going to miss the Scimitar -- almost past it now!  He
thrusts out a hand --

And just misses a piece of dangling wreckage!  Data is
floating helplessly through space.  Doomed.  Then he SLAMS
into an invisible piece of the partially cloaked on the ship!

He grabs onto the invisible part of the ship and pulls
himself up to the hull.  He rips open an access panel with
his superior strength and climbs inside.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - NIGHT

Shinzon stands, his eyes glued to the Enterprise on the
viewscreen.

We see a monitor showing that the Cascading Pulse weapon is
locked on the Enterprise.

Most of the light on the shattered bridge now comes from the
three steadily pulsing warp core relays which soar up through
the floor.

                     COMPUTER (V.O)
          Forty-seven.  Forty six...

Suddenly -- a MASSIVE BLAST as the doors to the bridge
explode in.  Shinzon spins to see --

Picard framed in the doorway, phaser rifle ready.

Picard instantly fires for the Cascading Pulse control -- but
Shinzon dives to cover it -- the phaser blast hits Shinzon in
the chest -- he recoils, slamming to the deck, stunned.

The few remaining Remans on the bridge spin to Picard, firing
disruptors -- Picard dives for cover and battles them with
his phaser rifle --

He succeeds in stunning the Remans but a final disruptor
blast knocks Picard to the deck -- the phaser rifle spins
away --

                     COMPUTER (V.O.)
          Twenty nine... Twenty eight...

Shinzon pulls himself up and races to snatch up a disruptor
from a fallen comrade --

As Picard leaps up, grabbing a piece of wreckage, a long
metal rod -- Picard thrusts it forward like a spear --

Impaling Shinzon.

A stunned moment of silence as Shinzon gazes at Picard,
almost with a look of disbelief.  Blood spews from his mouth
as he lets out a tormented cry.

And then, amazingly, Shinzon forces himself forward --
pushing Picard back against a wall -- Shinzon slowly walks
toward Picard, forcing himself down the length of the spear
-- the spear point explodes through Shinzon's back -- the
weight of Shinzon's body is pinning Picard against the wall
-- time is running out --

                     COMPUTER (V.O.)
          Eighteen... Seventeen...

Shinzon forces himself down the spear:

                     SHINZON
          I'm glad we're together now -- our
          destiny is complete.

He finally thrusts himself down the whole spear and clasps
his dying hands firmly around Picard's throat --

                     COMPUTER (V.O.)
          Ten...Nine...

Data sprints to the bridge --

He instantly tears open his wrist and pulls out the small,
silver disc we saw earlier -- the Emergency Transport Unit --
he slaps it on Picard's shoulder.  A final look between
them --
                     COMPUTER (V.O.)
          Seven..  Six...

Data activates the ETU -- Picard dematerializes.

Data looks at the space where Picard was and says simply:

                     DATA
          Goodbye.

Then he spins and pulls out his phaser --

And fires point-blank into the Scimitar's warp core relays --
the bridge explodes -- Data is incinerated --

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The Scimitar BLASTS APART in a massive flash --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard re-materializes.

He sees the brilliant flash from the explosion through the
gaping hole in the front of the bridge.

Deanna sits at helm, her face a mask of pain.  Geordi stands
on the upper rear deck, head down.

A long beat as Picard just stands on his ruined bridge, the
thousand-yard stare of a combat veteran in his eyes.

Riker emerges from the turbolift.  Goes to Picard.

                     RIKER
          Sir?

Picard doesn't answer, he just stares forward.  Deanna goes
to Riker.

                     DEANNA
          Data.

Riker looks toward the glowing debris field in the distance.
He puts an arm around Deanna.

Silence.

                     GEORDI
          Sir, we're being hailed.

                     PICARD
          On screen...
               (he remembers there is no
                longer a viewscreen)
          ... Open a channel.

                     DONATRA (V.O.)
          This is Commander Donatra of the
          Valdore.  We're dispatching
          shuttles with medical personnel and
          supplies.

                     PICARD
          Thank you, Commander.

The transmission ends.

                     PICARD
               (flat)
          Geordi... prepare the shuttlebay
          for arrivals.  They don't know our
          procedures so just... open the
          doors.

                     GEORDI
          I'll take care of it, sir.

                     PICARD
          Number One.
               (a beat)
          You have the bridge.

He turns and heads toward his Ready Room.

The others watch him go with great sadness.

When the Ready Room doors close behind Picard, Deanna finally
allows herself to cry.  Riker holds her closely.  Slow fade
to...

INT.  ENTERPRISE - CREW LOUNGE - NIGHT

Hours later.  The senior crew is solemnly gathered in the
shattered remains of the crew lounge.  Picard, Riker, Deanna,
Beverly, Worf, Geordi.

They wear their dress uniforms.

Picard goes to each of them.  He carries a small, metal box.
They each take something from the box.

At first we, don't quite see what they are doing.  Then we
realize they are affixing black bars to the collars of their
uniforms.

Mourning bands.

Picard pours six glasses of his precious Chateau Picard.
Each takes a glass.

Picard raises his glass.

                     PICARD
          To absent friends... o family.

They toast Data.  Slow fade to...

INT.  ENTERPRISE - PICARD'S CABIN - NIGHT

Picard sits at his desk, speaking quietly to someone we do
not see.

                     PICARD
          I don't know if all this has made
          sense to you, but I wanted you to
          know what kind of man he was.  In
          his quest to be more like us, he
          helped show us what it means to be
          human.

We see it is the now re-activated B-9 sitting across from
him.

                     B-9
          My brother was not a human.

                     PICARD
          No, he wasn't... But his wonder and
          his curiosity about every facet of
          human life helped all of us see the
          best parts of ourselves.  He
          embraced change... because he
          always wanted to be more than he
          was.

                     B-9
          I do not understand.

                     PICARD
          Well, I hope someday you will.

Worf interrupts on comm:

                     WORF (V.O.) (ON COMM)
          Captain, the Hemingway has arrived
          to tow us to spacedock.

                     PICARD
          On my way.  Please notify Commander
          Riker...
               (he stands, prepares to
                go)
          ... We'll talk later?

The B-9 does not respond.  He is looking rather blankly at
the padd on Picard's desk.

Picard begins to leave when a sound stops him... humming.  He
turns back to the B-9.

The B-9 is still looking blankly at the padd... but he's
humming lightly to himself... then he begins to sing, very
softly...

                     B-9
          "Blue skies, smiling at me, Nothing
          but blue skies do I see."

Then the B-9 is silent.

Picard watches him for a moment; great emotion playing over
his features, and then goes.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Picard and Riker head toward a turbolift... making their way
past the debris littering the corridor.

                     PICARD
          I'm sorry you won't be here for the
          re-fit, but I know the Titan needs
          you immediately.

Riker does not respond.

Picard stops, looks at Riker deeply.

                     PICARD
          The Titan's a fine ship, Will.  And
          she's getting a captain worthy of
          her.

                     RIKER
          She's the most beautiful ship I've
          ever seen.
               (he touches a wall of the
                corridor)
          ... But she's not the Enterprise.

                     PICARD
          I promise you in time, she'll
          become your home... If I could
          offer you one piece of advice?

                     RIKER
          Anything.

                     PICARD
          When your first officer insists
          that you can't go on away
          missions... Ignore him --

                     RIKER
               (smiles)
          I intend to.

A moment.

                     RIKER
               (with difficulty)
          Serving with you has been an honor.

                     PICARD
          The honor was mine.  Captain Riker.

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - SPACEDOCK - OVER EARTH

A few weeks later.  The Enterprise is enclosed in the great
womb of a spacedock.  The ship is being rebuilt.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - NIGHT

A fresh-faced young officer, COMMANDER MARTIN MADDEN, paces
nervously outside Picard's Ready Room.  Bracing himself
before entering.

Behind him we can see technicians working everywhere around
the bridge, trying to rebuild it.  Worf is talking to a young
officer at tactical and Geordi is working at the engineering
station.  We also see new command chairs being installed.

(Although we do not see it in this scene, the gaping hole at
the front of the bridge has not yet been repaired.)

A young Andorian woman, the new OPS OFFICER, smiles at
Madden's nervousness.  Her antennae twitch slightly in
amusement.  He sees her.

                     MADDEN
          So... what's the old man like?

                     OPS OFFICER
          Why don't you go in and find out?

Commander Madden prepares himself.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - READY ROOM - FOLLOWING

Picard is talking to Beverly on viewscreen.  She is in her
new office at Starfleet Medical.

                     BEVERLY (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          You can't imagine them, Jean Luc.
          They're kids!  All with advance
          degrees in xenobiology and out to
          conquer every disease in the
          quadrant.

                     PICARD
               (smiles)
          Reminds me of a young doctor I used
          to know...

                     BEVERLY (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          They're running me ragged.  Nothing
          but questions day and night... I
          love it!  Come to dinner and I'll
          tell you all about it.  There's a
          Bajoran band at the officer's mess.

                     PICARD
          Not tonight, I have work here.

                     BEVERLY (ON VIEWSCREEN)
          Soon then.  I'll save the last
          dance for you.

Commander Madden enters quickly -- he did not use the door
chime so Picard is surprised.

                     MADDEN
          Commander Martin Madden reporting
          for duty, sir.

Picard stands, they shake hands as:

                     PICARD
          Welcome aboard, Commander.  I hope,
          your transfer didn't come as too
          much of a surprise.

                     MADDEN
          I was... honored, sir.

                     PICARD
          I needed you immediately to help
          oversee the re-fit...
               (gathering up some padds
                from his desk)
          ... Your service record on the
          Talos is exemplary, but there are a
          few things I would like to discuss
          with you regarding my requirements
          for a First Officer.  Shall we say
          dinner in my quarters at 1900
          hours?

                     MADDEN
          Very good, sir.

Picard heads toward the door, carrying a few padds.

                     PICARD
          Commander, I don't know how they
          did it on the Talos, but we have
          door chimes on the Enterprise.  We
          use them.

                     MADDEN
          Yes, sir.  Sorry, sir.

Picard goes to the bridge, Madden following...

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

They emerge to the bridge as Worf is arguing with the cocky
young ENSIGN busy installing Picard's new high-tech command
chair.

                     WORF
          You don't understand the Captain --
          there should be no changes until we
          have discussed the modifications
          with him.

Picard goes to them:

                     PICARD
          What's this?

                     WORF
               (grumbles)
          Your new chair, sir.

                     ENSIGN
          It's the Mark Seven, Captain.
          State-of-the-art ergonomics...
          command interfaces with --

                     WORF
          I told him you're comfortable with
          your old chair.

                     PICARD
          Let's give it a try.

He settles into his new command chair.  Looks around for a
beat at his new bridge crew.  Fresh-faced kids.  A new
generation to teach and nurture.  He smiles.

                     PICARD
          Feels good.

Worf and Geordi exchange a look, surprised.

                     ENSIGN
               (points)
          Try that button, sir.

Picard presses a button on the chair and -- zip -- metal
restraints fly into position around his waist and shoulders.
Seatbelts!  Picard is surprised.

A beat.

Then Picard smiles.

                     PICARD
          It's about time.

He presses the button again and the restraints zip back into
the body of the chair.  He is delighted.  He turns to Madden:

                     PICARD
          Commander, please sit down...

Madden sits in the First Officer's chair, Picard shares a
padd with him.

                     PICARD
          ... We've received our first
          assignment.  We're going to be
          exploring the Denab system.  It
          should be exciting.  It's a
          place... where no one has gone
          before.

And we cut to --

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - SPACEDOCK - OVER EARTH - FOLLOWING

Through the hole in the hull we see Picard talking to Madden.
Picard at work, at peace.  Where he is meant to be.

We slowly pull back from Picard and the Enterprise.  As we
hear the B-9's soft tones.  Gentle.  Hopeful.

                     B-9 (V.O.)
          "Never saw the sun shining so
          bright, Never saw things going so
          right.  Noticing the days hurrying
          by, When you're in love, my how
          they fly.  Blue days, all of them
          gone, Nothing but blue skies from
          now on."

We revolve away from the Enterprise and Earth toward the
stars.  Then ZOOM forward into the cosmos as the rousing
"Next Generation" theme explodes over END CREDITS.

                                                FADE OUT.





