RETURN 
OF THE 
JEDI

by
Lawrence Kasdan
&
George Lucas

From The Novel
by
George Lucas

Third Draft

Property of Lucasfilm Ltd.


Completion Date December 1, 1981

1    SPACE                                                           

The boundless heavens serve as a back-drop for the MAIN TITLE, followed 
by a ROLL-UP, which crawls into infinity.

Episode VI
RETURN OF THE JEDI

Luke Skywalker has returned to his home planet of Tatooine in an 
attempt to rescue his friend Han Solo from the clutches of the√ävile 
gangster Jabba the Hutt. Little does Luke know that the GALACTIC EMPIRE 
has secretly begun construction on a new armored space station even 
more powerful than the first dreaded Death Star. When completed, this 
ultimate weapon will spell certain doom for the small band of Rebels 
struggling to restore freedom to the galaxy...

PAN DOWN to reveal a monstrous half-completed Death Star, its massive 
superstructure curling away from the completed section like the arms of 
a giant octopus. Beyond, in benevolent contrast, floats the small, 
green moon of ENDOR.

An Imperial Star Destroyer moves overhead toward the massive armored 
space station, followed by two zipping TIE fighters. A small Imperial 
shuttle rockets from the main bay of the ship and hustles toward the 
Death Star.

2    INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT 
The shuttle captain makes contact with the Death Star.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN
Command station, this is ST 321. Code Clearance Blue. We're starting 
our approach. Deactivate the security shield.

DEATH STAR CONTROLLER	(filtered VO)
The security deflector shield will be deactivated when we have 
confirmation of your code transmission. Stand by... You are clear to 
proceed.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN
We're starting our approach.

3    INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Operators move about among the control panels. A SHIELD OPERATOR hits 
switches beside a large screen, on which is a display of the Death 
Star, the moon Endor, and a bright web delineating the invisible 
deflector shield.

A control officer rushes over to the shield operator.

OFFICER
Inform the commander that Lord Vader's shuttle has arrived.

OPERATOR
Yes, sir.

The control officer moves to a view port and watches as the Imperial 
shuttle lands in the massive docking bay. A squad of Imperial 
stormtroopers moves into formation before the craft.

4    INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The DEATH STAR COMMANDER, MOFF JERJERROD, a tall, confident technocrat, 
strides through the assembled troops to the base of the shuttle ramp. 
The troops snap to attention; many are uneasy about the new arrival. 
But the Death Star commander stands arrogantly tall.

The exit hatch of the shuttle opens with a WHOOSH, revealing only 
darkness. Then, heavy FOOTSTEPS AND MECHANICAL BREATHING. From this 
black void appears DARTH VADER, LORD OF THE SITH. Vader looks over the 
assemblage as he walks down the ramp.

JERJERROD
Lord Vader, this is an unexpected pleasure. We're honored by your 
presence.

VADER
You may dispense with the pleasantries, Commander. I'm here to put you 
back on
schedule.

The commander turns ashen and begins to shake.

JERJERROD
I assure you, Lord Vader, my men are working as fast as they can.

VADER
Perhaps I can find new ways to motivate them.

JERJERROD
I tell you, this station will be operational as planned.

VADER
The Emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal of the situation.

JERJERROD
But he asks the impossible. I need more men.

VADER
Then perhaps you can tell him when he arrives.

JERJERROD	 (aghast)
The Emperor's coming here?

VADER
That is correct, Commander. And he is most displeased with your 
apparent lack of progress.

JERJERROD
We shall double our efforts.

VADER
I hope so, Commander, for your sake. The Emperor is not as forgiving as 
I am.

5    EXT ROAD TO JABBA'S PALACE - TATOOINE

A lonely, windswept road meanders through the desolate Tatooine 
terrain. We HEAR a familiar BEEPING and a distinctive reply before 
catching sight of ARTOO-DETOO and SEE-THREEPIO, making their way along 
the road toward the ominous palace of Jabba the Hutt.

THREEPIO
Of course I'm worried. And you should be, too. Lando Calrissian and 
poor Chewbacca never returned from this awful place.

Artoo whistles timidly.

THREEPIO
Don't be so sure. If I told you half the things I've heard about this 
Jabba the Hutt, you'd probably short-circuit.

The two droids fearfully approach the massive gate to the palace.

THREEPIO
Artoo, are you sure this is the right place? I better knock, I suppose.

6    EXT JABBA'S PALACE - GATE 

Threepio looks around for some kind of signaling device, then timidly 
knocks on the iron door.

THREEPIO	 (instantly) 
There doesn't seem to be anyone there. Let's go back and tell Master 
Luke.

A small hatch in the middle of the door opens and a spidery mechanical 
arm, with a large electronic eyeball on the end, pops out and inspects 
the two droids.

STRANGE VOICE
Tee chuta hhat yudd!

THREEPIO
Goodness gracious me!

 Threepio points to Artoo, then to himself.

 THREEPIO
 Artoo Detoowha bo Seethreepiowha ey toota odd mischka Jabba du Hutt.

The eye looks from one robot to the other, there is a laugh then the 
eye zips back into the door. The hatch slams shut. Artoo beeps his 
concern.

THREEPIO
I don't think they're going to let us in, Artoo. We'd better go.

Artoo beeps his reluctance as Threepio turns to leave. Suddenly the 
massive door starts to rise with a horrific metallic SCREECH. The 
robots turn back and face an endless black cavity. The droids look at 
one another, afraid to enter.

Artoo starts forward into the gloom. Threepio rushes after his stubby 
companion. The door lowers noisily behind them.

THREEPIO 
Artoo, wait. Oh, dear! Artoo. Artoo, I really don't think we should 
rush into all this.

Artoo continues down the corridor, with Threepio following.

THREEPIO
Oh, Artoo!  Artoo, wait for me!

7    INT JABBA'S PALACE - HALLWAY

The door slams shut with a loud crash that echoes throughout the dark 
passageway. The frightened robots are met by two giant, green GAMORREAN 
GUARDS, who fall in behind them. Threepio glances quickly back at the 
two lumbering brutes, then back to Artoo. One guard grunts an order. 
Artoo beeps nervously.

THREEPIO
Just you deliver Master Luke's message and get us out of here. Oh my! 
Oh! Oh, no.

Walking toward them out of the darkness is BIB FORTUNA, a humanlike 
alien with long tentacles protruding from his skull.

BIB
Die Wanna Wanga!

THREEPIO
Oh, my! Die Wanna Wauaga. We -- we bring a message to your master, 
Jabba the Hutt.

Artoo lets out a series of quick beeps.

THREEPIO	 (cont)
...and a gift.
(thinks a moment, then to Artoo)
Gift, what gift?

Bib shakes his head negatively.

BIB
Nee Jabba no badda. Me chaade su goodie.

Bib holds out his hand toward Artoo and the tiny droid backs up a bit, 
letting out a protesting array of squeaks. Threepio turns to the 
strange-looking alien.

THREEPIO
He says that our instructions are to give it only to Jabba himself.

Bib thinks about this for a moment.

THREEPIO
I'm terribly sorry. I'm afraid he's ever so stubborn about these sort 
of things.

Bib gestures for the droids to follow.

BIB
Nudd Chaa.

The droids follow the tall, tentacled alien into the darkness, trailed 
by the two guards.

THREEPIO
Artoo, I have a bad feeling about this.

8    INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

The throne room is filled with the vilest, most grotesque CREATURES 
ever conceived in the universe. Artoo and Threepio seem very small as 
they pause in the doorway to the dimly lit chamber. Light shafts 
partially illuminate the drunken courtiers as Bib Fortuna crosses the 
room to the platform upon which rests the leader of this nauseating 
crowd: JABBA THE HUTT. The monarch of the galactic underworld is a 
repulsive blob of bloated fat with a maniacal grin. Chained to the 
horrible creature is the beautiful alien female dancer named OOLA. At 
the foot of the dais sits an obnoxious birdlike creature, SALACIOUS 
CRUMB. Bib whispers something in the slobbering degenerate's ear. Jabba 
laughs horribly, at the two terrified droids before him. Threepio bows 
politely.

THREEPIO
Good morning.

JABBA
Bo Shuda!

The robots jump forward to stand before the repulsive, loose-skinned 
villain.

THREEPIO
The message, Artoo, the message.

Artoo whistles, and a beam of light projects from his domed head, 
creating a hologram of LUKE on the floor. The image grows to over ten 
feet tall, and the young Jedi towers over the space gangsters.

LUKE
Greetings, Exalted One. Allow me to introduce myself. I am Luke 
Skywalker, Jedi Knight and friend to Captain Solo. I know that you are 
powerful, mighty Jabba, and that your anger with Solo must be equally 
powerful. I seek an audience with Your Greatness to bargain for Solo's 
life. 
(Jabba's crowd laughs) 
With your wisdom, I'm sure that we can work out an arrangement which 
will be mutually beneficial and enable us to avoid any unpleasant 
confrontation. As a token of my goodwill, I present to you a gift: 
these two droids.

Threepio is startled by this announcement.

THREEPIO
What did he say?

LUKE	 (cont)
... Both are hardworking and will serve you well.

THREEPIO
This can't be! Artoo, you're playing the wrong message.

Luke's hologram disappears.

Jabba laughs while Bib speaks to him in Huttese.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
There will be no bargain.

THREEPIO
We're doomed.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
I will not give up my favorite decoration. I like Captain Solo where he 
is.

Jabba laughs hideously and looks toward an alcove beside the throne. 
Hanging high, flat against the wall, exactly as we saw him last, is a 
carbonized HAN SOLO.

THREEPIO
Artoo, look! Captain Solo. And he's still frozen in carbonite.

9    INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR 

One of Jabba's Gamorrean guards marches Artoo and Threepio down a dank, 
shadowy passageway lined with holding cells. The cries of unspeakable 
creatures bounce off the cold stone walls. Occasionally a repulsive arm 
or tentacle grabs through the bars at the hapless droids. Artoo beeps 
pitifully.

THREEPIO
What could possibly have come over Master Luke. Is it something I did? 
He never expressed any unhappiness with my work. Oh! Oh! Hold it! Ohh!

A large tentacle wraps around Threepio's neck. He manages to break 
free, and they move on to a door at the end of the corridor.

10   INT BOILER ROOM

The door slides open, revealing a room filled with steam and noisy 
machinery. The guard motions them into the boiler room, where they are 
met by a tall, thin humanlike robot named EV-9D9. Behind the robot can 
be seen a torture rack pulling the legs off a screaming baby work 
droid. A second power droid is upside down.  As smoking branding irons 
are pressed into his feet, the stubby robot lets out an agonized 
electronic scream. Artoo and Threepio cringe as the guard grunts to EV-
9D9.

NINEDENINE
Ah, good. New acquisitions. You are a protocol droid, are you not?

THREEPIO
I am See-Threepio, human-cy...

NINEDENINE
Yes or no will do.

THREEPIO
Oh. Well, yes.

NINEDENINE
How many languages do you speak?

THREEPIO
I am fluent in over six million forms of communication, and can 
readily...

NINEDENINE
Splendid! We have been without an interpreter since our master got 
angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.

THREEPIO
Disintegrated?

NINEDENINE	 (to a Gamorrean guard)
Guard! This protocol droid might be useful. Fit him with a restraining 
bolt and take him back to His Excellency's main audience chamber.

The guard shoves Threepio toward the door.

THREEPIO	 (disappearing)
Artoo, don't leave me! Ohhh!

Artoo lets out a plaintive cry as the door closes. Then he beeps 
angrily.

NINEDENINE
You're a feisty little one, but you'll soon learn some respect. I have 
need for you on the master's Sail Barge. And I think you'll fit in 
nicely.

The poor work droid in the background lets out another tortured 
electronic scream.

11   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

The court of Jabba the Hutt is in the midst of a drunken, raucous 
party. Sloppy, smelly monsters cheer and make rude noises as Oola and a 
fat female dancer perform in front of Jabba's throne.

Jabba leers at the dancers and with a lustful gleam in his eye beckons 
Oola to come and sit with him. She stops dancing and backs away, 
shaking her head. Jabba gets angry and points to a spot next to him.

JABBA
Da Eitha!

The lovely alien shakes her head again and screams.

OOLA
Na Chuba negatorie Na! Na! Natoota...

Jabba is furious and pulls her toward him, tugging on the chain.

JABBA
Boscka!

He pushes a button and, before the dancer can flee, a trap door in the 
floor springs open and swallows her up. As the door snaps shut, a 
muffled growl is followed by a hideous scream. Jabba and his monstrous 
friends laugh hysterically and several revelers hurry over to watch her 
fate through a grate.

Threepio cringes and glances wistfully at the carbonite form of Han 
Solo, but is immediately distracted by a gunshot offscreen.√äAn 
unnatural quiet sweeps the boisterous gathering. On the far side of the 
room, the crush of debauchers moves aside to allow the approach of two 
guards followed by BOUSHH, an oddly cloaked bounty hunter, leading his 
captive, Han Solo's copilot, CHEWBACCA THE WOOKIEE.

Bib takes his place next to his disgusting master, and whispers into 
his ear, pointing at Chewbacca and the bounty hunter. Jabba listens 
intently, then the bounty hunter bows before the gangster and speaks a 
greeting in a strange, electronically processed tongue (Ubese).

BOUSHH	 (in Ubese subtitled)
I have come for the bounty on this Wookiee.

THREEPIO
Oh, no! Chewbacca!

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
At last we have the mighty Chewbacca.

Jabba lets out a loud, long, blood-curdling laugh and turns to 
Threepio, waving him closer. The reluctant droid obeys.

THREEPIO
Oh, uh, yes, uh, I am here, Your Worshipfulness. Uh... yes!

Jabba continues speaking, as Threepio nervously translates. Boushh 
listens, studying the dangerous creatures around the room. He notices 
BOBA FETT standing near the door.

THREEPIO
Oh. The illustrious Jabba bids you welcome and will gladly pay you the 
reward of twenty-five thousand.

BOUSHH	 (in Ubese subtitled)
I want fifty thousand. No less.

Jabba immediately flies into a rage, knocking the golden droid off the 
raised throne into a clattering heap on the floor. Boushh adjusts his 
weapon as Jabba raves in Huttese and Threepio struggles back onto the 
throne. The disheveled droid tries to compose himself.

THREEPIO
Uh, oh... but what, what did I say?
(to Boushh)
Uh, the mighty Jabba asks why he must pay fifty thousand.

The bounty hunter holds up a small silver ball in his hand. Threepio 
looks at it, then looks at Jabba, then back to the bounty hunter. The 
droid is very nervous and Jabba is getting very impatient.

THREEPIO
Because he's holding a thermal detonator.

The guards instantly back away, as do most of the other monsters in the 
room. Jabba stares at the silver ball, which begins to glow in the 
bounty hunter's hand. The room has fallen into a tense hush. Jabba 
stares at the bounty hunter malevolently until a sly grin creeps across 
his vast mouth and he begins to laugh.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
This bounty hunter is my kind of scum. Fearless and inventive.

Jabba continues.

THREEPIO
Jabba offers the sum of thirty-five. And I suggest you take it.

Bib and the other monsters study the bounty hunter and wait for his 
reaction. Boushh releases a switch on the thermal detonator and it goes 
dead.

BOUSHH
Zeebuss.

THREEPIO
He agrees!

The raucous crowd of monsters erupts in a symphony of cheers and 
applause as the party returns to its full noisy pitch. Chewbacca 
growls. As he is led away we spot LANDO CALRISSIAN, disguised as a 
skiff guard in a partial face mask. The band starts up and dancing 
girls take the center of the floor, to the hoots of the loudly 
appreciative creatures.

Boushh leans against a column with gunfighter cool and surveys the 
scene, his gaze stopping only when it connects with a glare from across 
the room. Boba Fett is watching him. Boushh shifts slightly, cradling 
his weapon lovingly. Boba Fett shifts with equally ominous arrogance.

12   INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR AND CELL

Gamorrean guards lead Chewie down the same hallway we saw before. When 
a tentacle reaches out at the Wookiee, Chewie's ferocious ROAR echoes 
against the walls and the tentacle snaps back into its cell in terror. 
It takes all the guards to hurl Chewie roughly into a cell, slamming 
the door behind him. Chewie lets out a pathetic howl and bangs on the 
iron door.

13   EXT JABBA'S PALACE

The palace is sitting in the light of the double sunset. On the road in 
front, a large toadlike creature flicks its tongue out for a desert 
rodent and burps in satisfaction.

14   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM - NIGHT

Silence. The room is deserted, only the awful debris of the alien 
celebration giving mute witness to the activity here before. Several 
drunk creatures lie unconscious around the room, snoring loudly.

A shadowy figure moves stealthily among the columns at the perimeter of 
the room and is revealed to be Boushh, the bounty hunter. He picks his 
way carefully through the snoring, drunken monsters.

Han Solo, the frozen space pirate, hangs spotlighted on the wall, his 
coffin-like case suspended by a force field. The bounty hunter 
deactivates the force field by flipping a control switch to one side of 
the coffin. The heavy case slowly lowers to the floor of the alcove.

Boushh steps up to the case, studying Han, and then turns to the 
controls on the side of the coffin. He activates a series of switches 
and, after one last hesitant look at Han, slides the de-carbonization 
lever. The case begins to emit a sound as the hard shell covering the 
contours of Han's face begins to melt away. The bounty hunter watches 
as Han's body is freed of its metallic coat and his forearms and hands, 
previously raised in reflexive protest, drop slackly to his side. His 
face muscles relax from their mask of horror. He appears quite dead.

Boushh's ugly helmet leans close to Han's face listening for the breath 
of life. Nothing. He waits. Han's eyes pop open with a start and he 
begins coughing. The bounty hunter steadies the staggering newborn.

BOUSHH
Just relax for a moment. You're free of the carbonite.

Han touches his face with his hand and moans.

BOUSHH
Shhh. You have hibernation sickness.

HAN
I can't see.

BOUSHH
Your eyesight will return in time.

HAN
Where am I?

BOUSHH
Jabba's palace.

HAN
Who are you?

The bounty hunter reaches up and lifts the helmet from his head, 
revealing the beautiful face of PRINCESS LEIA.

LEIA
Someone who loves you.

HAN
Leia!

LEIA
I gotta get you out of here.

As Leia helps her weakened lover to stand up, the relative quiet is 
pierced by an obscene HUTTESE CACKLE from the other side of the alcove.

HAN
What's that? I know that laugh.

The curtain on the far side of the alcove opens, revealing Jabba the 
Hutt, surrounded by Bib and other aliens. He laughs again, and his 
gross cronies join in a cacophony of alien glee.

HAN
Hey, Jabba. Look, Jabba, I was just on my way to pay you back, but I 
got a little sidetracked. It's not my fault.

Jabba laughs.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
It's too late for that, Solo. You may have been a good smuggler, but 
now you're Bantha fodder.

HAN
Look...

JABBA	 (cont Huttese subtitled)
Take him away!

The guards grab Han and start to lead him away.

HAN
Jabba... I'll pay you triple! You're throwing away a fortune here. 
Don't be a fool!

Han is dragged off, as Lando quickly moves forward and attempts to lead 
Leia away.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Bring her to me.

Jabba chuckles as Lando and a second guard drag the beautiful young 
princess toward him. Threepio peeks from behind a monster and quickly 
turns away in disgust.

LEIA
We have powerful friends. You're gonna regret this...

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
I'm sure.

Inexorably her lovely face moves to within a few inches of Jabba's ugly 
blob of a head, and Leia turns away in disgust.

LEIA
Ugh!

THREEPIO
Ohhh, I can't bear to watch.

15   INT DUNGEON CELL

The heavy metal door of the dungeon whines and slowly creaks open. A 
guard throws the blinded star captain into the dark cell and the door 
slams shut behind him, leaving only a thin sliver of light from a crack 
in the door. Han is trying to collect himself when suddenly a growl is 
heard from the far side of the cell. He jumps back against the cell 
door and listens.

HAN
Chewie? Chewie, is that you?

The shadowy figure lets out a crazy yell and races toward Han, lifting 
him off the ground with a big hug that carries them into the light, 
revealing Chewie.

HAN
Ah! Chew--Chewie!

The giant Wookiee barks with glee.

HAN
Wait. I can't see, pal. What's goin' on?

Chewie barks an excited blue streak.

HAN
Luke? Luke's crazy. He can't even take care of himself, much less 
rescue anybody.

Chewie barks a reply.

HAN
A...Jedi Knight? I--I'm out of it for a little while, everybody gets 
delusions of grandeur.

Chewie growls insistently. He holds Han to his chest and pets his head.

HAN
I'm all right, pal. I'm all right.

16   INT MAIN GATE AND HALL - JABBA'S PALACE

Noisily, the main gate lifts to flood the blackness with blinding LIGHT 
and reveal the silhouetted figure of LUKE SKYWALKER. He is clad in a 
robe similar to Ben's and wears neither pistol nor laser sword. Luke 
strides purposefully into the hallway. Two giant guards move to block 
Luke's path. Luke halts.

Luke raises his hand and points at the puzzled guards, who immediately 
lower their spears and fall back. The young Jedi lowers his hand and 
moves on down the hallway.

Bib Fortuna appears out of the gloom. He speaks to Luke as they 
approach each other, but Luke doesn't stop and Bib must reverse his 
direction and hurry alongside the young Jedi in order to carry on the 
conversation. Several other guards fall in behind them in the darkness.

LUKE
I must speak with Jabba.

Bib answers in Huttese, shaking his head in denial. Luke stops and 
stares at Bib; he raises his hand slightly.

LUKE
You will take me to Jabba now!

Bib turns in hypnotic response to Luke's command, and Luke follows him 
into the gloom.

LUKE
You serve your master well.

Bib responds.

LUKE
And you will be rewarded.

17   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

Jabba is asleep on his throne, with Leia lying in front of him. 
Salacious sits by Jabba's tail, watching it wriggle. Leia is now 
dressed in the skimpy costume of a dancing girl; a chain runs from a 
manacle/necklace at her throat to her new master, Jabba the Hutt. 
Threepio stands behind Jabba as Bib comes up to the gangster slug.

THREEPIO
At last! Master Luke's come to rescue me.

BIB
Master.

Jabba awakens with a start and Bib continues, in Huttese.

BIB
...Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
I told you not to admit him.

LUKE
I must be allowed to speak.

BIB	 (in Huttese subtitled)
He must be allowed to speak.

Jabba, furious, clobbers Bib and shoves him away.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
You weak-minded fool! He's using an old Jedi mind trick.

Luke stares hard at Jabba.

LUKE
You will bring Captain Solo and the Wookiee to me.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Your mind powers will not work on me, boy.

LUKE
Nevertheless, I'm taking Captain Solo and his friends. You can either 
profit by this... or be destroyed! It's your choice. But I warn you not 
to underestimate my powers.

Jabba's laugh is mean and loud. Threepio attempts to warn Luke about 
the pit.

THREEPIO
Master Luke, you're standing on...

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
There will be no bargain, young Jedi. I shall enjoy watching you die.

Luke reaches out, and a pistol jumps out of a guard's holster and flies 
into Luke's hand. The bewildered guard grabs for it as Jabba raises his 
hand.

JABBA
Bascka!

The floor suddenly drops away, sending Luke and the hapless guard into 
the pit. The pistol goes off, blasting a hole in the ceiling. Jabba 
laughs and his courtiers join in. Leia starts forward but is restrained 
by a human guard-- Lando, recognizable behind his mask. She looks at 
him and he shakes his head "no."

18   INT RANCOR PIT

Luke and the guard have dropped twenty-five feet from a chute into the 
dungeonlike cage. Luke gets to his feet as the guard yells hysterically 
for help. A crowd gathers up around the edge of the pit as the door in 
the side of the pit starts to RUMBLE open. The guard screams in panic. 
Luke looks calmly around for a means of escape.

THREEPIO
Oh, no! The Rancor!

At the side of the pit, an iron door rumbles upward and a giant, fanged 
RANCOR emerges. The guard runs to the side of the pit and tries 
futilely to scramble to the top. The hideous beast closes in on him.

The Rancor moves past Luke, and as the guard continues to scramble, the 
Rancor picks him up and pops him into its slavering jaws. A few 
screams, and the guard is swallowed with a gulp. The audience cheers 
and laughs at the guard's fate.

The monster turns and starts for Luke. The young Jedi dashes away just 
ahead of the monster's swipe at him, and picks up the long arm bone of 
an earlier victim. The monster grabs Luke and brings him up to his 
salivating mouth. At the last moment, Luke wedges the bone in the 
monster's mouth and is dropped to the floor. The monster bellows in 
rage and flails about, hitting the side of the pit, causing an 
avalanche.

The monster crushes the bone in its jaws and sees Luke, who squeezes 
into a crevice in the pit wall. Luke looks past the monster to the 
holding cave beyond. On the far side of the holding cave is a utility 
door--if only he can get to it. The Rancor spots Luke and reaches into 
the crevice for him. Luke grabs a large rock and raises it, smashing it 
down on the Rancor's finger.

19   HOLDING TUNNEL - RANCOR PIT

The Rancor lets out a loud howl as Luke makes a run for the holding 
cave. He reaches the door and pushes a button to open it. When he 
succeeds, he sees a heavy barred gate between him and safety. Beyond 
the gate two guards look up from their dinner. Luke turns to see the 
monster heading for him, and pulls with all his might on the gate. The 
guards move to the gate and start poking at the young Jedi with spears, 
laughing.

Luke crouches (against the wall) as the monster starts to reach for 
him. Suddenly he notices a main door control panel halfway up the wall. 
As the Rancor moves in for the kill, Luke picks up a skull from the 
cave floor and hurls it at the panel. The giant overhead door comes 
crashing down on the beast's head, squashing it like a sledgehammer on 
an egg.

A startled gasp is heard from the stunned court. There's consternation 
at this turn of events. Heads look to Jabba, who is actually turning 
red with anger. Leia cannot suppress her joy. Jabba utters harsh 
commands to his guards and they hurry off.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Bring me Solo and the Wookiee. They will all suffer for this outrage.

21   INT RANCOR PIT

The Rancor KEEPERS have come into the cage and are examining their dead 
beast. One of them breaks down and weeps. The other glares menacingly 
at Luke, who is unworried. Several guards rush into the holding tunnel 
and take Luke away.

22   INT THRONE ROOM

The crowd of creepy courtiers parts as Han and Chewie are brought into 
the throne room, and other guards drag Luke up the steps.

LUKE
Han!

HAN
Luke!

LUKE
Are you all right?

HAN
Fine. Together again, huh?

LUKE
Wouldn't miss it.

HAN
How are we doing?

LUKE
The same as always.

HAN
That bad, huh? Where's Leia?

Luke looks to Leia.

LEIA
I'm here.

Threepio is standing behind the grotesque gangster as he strokes Leia 
like a pet cat. Several of the guards, including Lando, bring Luke from 
the other side of the room. Boba is standing behind Jabba.

Threepio steps forward and translates for the captives.

THREEPIO
Oh, dear. His High Exaltedness, the great Jabba the Hutt, has decreed 
that you are to be terminated immediately.

HAN
Good, I hate long waits.

THREEPIO
You will therefore be taken to the Dune Sea and cast into the pit of 
Carkoon, the nesting place of the all-powerful Sarlacc.

HAN	 (to Luke)
Doesn't sound so bad.

THREEPIO
In his belly, you will find a new definition of pain and suffering, as 
you are slowly digested over a thousand years.

HAN
On second thought, let's pass on that, huh?

Chewie barks his agreement.

LUKE
You should have bargained, Jabba. That's the last mistake you'll ever 
make.

Jabba cackles evilly at this.

As the guards drag the prisoners from the throne room, a loud cheer 
rises from the crowd. Leia and Chewie exchange concerned looks, but 
Luke Skywalker, Jedi warrior, cannot suppress a smile.

23   EXT TATOOINE SEA - SKIFF

Jabba's huge SAIL BARGE moves above the desert surface accompanied by 
two smaller Skiffs. One of the skiffs glides close, revealing Luke, 
Han, and Chewie -- all in bonds -- surrounded by guards, one of whom is 
Lando in disguise.

HAN
I think my eyes are getting better. Instead of a big dark blur, I see a 
big light blur.

LUKE
There's nothing to see. I used to live here, you know.

HAN
You're gonna die here, you know. Convenient.

LUKE
Just stick close to Chewie and Lando. I've taken care of everything.

HAN
Oh... great!

24   INT BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba the Hutt rides like a sultan in the massive antigravity ship. His 
entire retinue is with him, drinking, eating, and having a good time. 
Leia is watching her friends in the skiff when the chain attached to 
her neck is pulled tight and Jabba tugs the scantily clad princess to 
him.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Soon you will learn to appreciate me.

Threepio wanders among the Sail Barge aliens, bumping into a smaller 
droid serving drinks, spilling them all over the place. The stubby 
droid lets out an angry series of beeps and whistles.

THREEPIO
Oh, I'm terribly sor... Artoo! What are you doing here?

Artoo beeps a quick reply.

THREEPIO
Well, I can see you're serving drinks, but this place is dangerous. 
They're going to execute Master Luke and, if we're not careful, us too!

Artoo whistles a singsong response.

THREEPIO
Hmm.  I wish I had your confidence.

25   EXT SARLACC PIT 

The convoy moves up over a huge sand pit. The Sail Barge stops to one 
side of the depression, as does the escort skiff. But the prisoner's 
skiff moves out directly over the center and hovers. At the bottom of 
the deep cone of sand is a repulsive, mucous-lined hole, surrounded by 
thousands of needle-sharp teeth. This is the SARLACC. A plank is 
extended from the edge of the prisoner's skiff. Guards release Luke's 
bonds and shove him out onto the plank above the Sarlacc's mouth.

26   EXT SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba and Leia are now by the rail, watching. Threepio leans forward 
and the slobbering villain mumbles something to him. As Threepio steps 
up to a comlink, Jabba raises his arm and the motley array of 
intergalactic pirates fall silent. Threepio's voice is amplified across 
loudspeakers.

THREEPIO
Victims of the almighty Sarlacc: His Excellency hopes that you will die 
honorably. But should any of you wish to beg for mercy, the great Jabba 
the Hutt will now listen to your pleas.

27   EXT SKIFF

Han steps forward arrogantly and begins to speak.

HAN
Threepio, you tell that slimy piece of... worm-ridden filth he'll get 
no such pleasure from us. Right?

Chewie growls his agreement.

LUKE
Jabba! This is your last chance. Free us or die.

Lando moves unobtrusively along the skiff as Luke shoots a quick look 
of conspiracy to him.

28   INT SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

The assembled monsters rock with mocking laughter as Artoo zips 
unnoticed up the ramp to the upper deck. Jabba's laughter subsides as 
he speaks into the comlink.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Move him into position.

Jabba makes a thumbs-down gesture. Leia looks worried.

29   EXT BARGE - UPPER DECK

Artoo appears from below and zips over to the rail facing the pit. 
Below, in the skiff, Luke is prodded by a guard to the edge of the 
plank over the gaping Sarlacc. Luke looks up at Artoo, then gives a 
jaunty salute: the signal the little droid has been waiting for. A flap 
opens in Artoo's domed head.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Put him in.

30   EXT SKIFF - PLANK

Luke is prodded and jumps off the plank to the cheers of the 
bloodthirsty spectators. But, before anyone can even perceive what is 
happening, he spins around and grabs the end of the plank by his 
fingertips. The plank bends wildly from his weight and catapults him 
skyward. In midair he does a complete flip and drops down on the end of 
the plank in the same spot he just vacated, but facing the skiff. He 
casually extends an open palm and -- his lightsaber, which Artoo has 
sent arcing toward him, drops into his hand.

With samurai speed, Luke ignites it and attacks the guard who prodded 
him off the plank, sending the hapless monster screaming overboard. The 
other guards swarm toward Luke. He wades into them, lightsaber 
flashing. Lando struggles with another guard at the back of the skiff.

31   EXT SARLACC PIT

A bewildered guard lands in the soft, sandy slope of the pit, and 
begins sliding. He claws desperately as a Sarlacc tentacle grabs him 
and pulls him screaming into the viscous mouth.

32   INT SAIL BARGE

Jabba watches this and explodes in rage. He barks commands, and the 
guards around him rush off to do his bidding. The scuzzy creatures 
watching the action from the window are in an uproar.

33   EXT SKIFF 

Luke knocks another guard off the skiff and into the waiting mouth of 
the Sarlacc. He starts to untie Chewie's bonds.

LUKE
Easy, Chewie.

At that moment, the deck gunmen on the barge unleash a series of blasts 
from a big cannon on the upper deck. Lando is tossed from the deck of 
the rocking skiff. He manages to grab a rope, and dangles desperately 
above the Sarlacc pit.

LANDO
Whoa! Whoa! Help!

34   EXT UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE

With two swift strides, the dangerous Boba Fett ignites his rocket 
pack, leaps into the air, and flies from the barge down to the skiff.

35   EXT SKIFF

Boba lands on the skiff and starts to aim his laser gun at Luke, who 
has freed Han and Chewie from their bonds. But before Boba can fire, 
the young Jedi spins on him, lightsaber sweeping, and hacks the bounty 
hunter's gun in half.

Immediately, the skiff takes another direct hit from the barge's deck 
gun. Shards of skiff deck fly. Chewie and Han are thrown against the 
rail.

HAN
Chewie, you okay? Where is he?

The Wookiee is wounded and he howls in pain.

HAN
I'm okay, pal.

For a moment, Luke is distracted, and in that moment, Boba fires a 
cable out of his armored sleeve. Instantly, Luke is wrapped in a strong 
cable, his arms pinned against his side, his sword arm free only from 
the wrist down.  Luke bends his wrist so the lightsaber points straight 
up to reach the wire lasso and cuts through. Luke shrugs away the cable 
and stands free.

Another blast from the Barge's deck gun hits near Boba and he is 
knocked unconscious to the deck, next to where Lando is hanging.

LANDO
Han! Chewie?

HAN
Lando!

Luke is a little shaken but remains standing as a fusillade brackets 
him. The second skiff, loaded with guards firing their weapons, moves 
in on Luke fast. Luke leaps toward the incoming second skiff. The young 
Jedi leaps into the middle of the second skiff and begins decimating 
the guards from their midst.

Chewie, wounded, tries to lift himself as he barks directions to Han, 
guiding him toward a spear which has been dropped by one of the guards. 
Han searches the deck as Chewie barks directions; finally he grabs hold 
of the spear.

Boba Fett, badly shaken, rises from the deck. He looks over at the 
other skiff, where Luke is whipping a mass of guards. Boba raises his 
arm, and aims his lethal appendage.

Chewie barks desperately at Han.

HAN
Boba Fett?! Boba Fett?! Where?

The space pirate turns around blindly, and the long spear in his hand 
whacks squarely in the middle of Boba's rocket pack.

The impact of the swing causes the rocket pack to ignite. Boba blasts 
off, flying over the second skiff like a missile, smashing against the 
side of the huge Sail Barge and sliding away into the pit. He screams 
as his armored body makes its last flight past Lando and directly into 
the mucous mouth of the Sarlacc. The Sarlacc burps. Chewie growls a 
weak congratulations to Han.

36   INT SAIL BARGE

Leia turns from the spectacle outside, leaps onto Jabba's throne, and 
throws the chain that enslaves her over his head around his bulbous 
neck. Then she dives off the other side of the throne, pulling the 
chain violently in her grasp. Jabba's flaccid neck contracts beneath 
the tightening chain. His huge eyes bulge from their sockets and his 
scum-coated tongue flops out. The Exalted Hutt's huge tail spasms 
through its death throes and then slams down into final stillness. Leia 
struggles to free herself of her bondage.

37   EXT SKIFF

Luke continues to destroy the aliens on the guards' skiff, as Han 
extends his spear downward to Lando, who is still dangling precariously 
from a rope on the prisoner's skiff.

HAN
Lando, grab it!

LANDO
Lower it!

HAN
I'm trying!

A major hit from the barge deck gun knocks the skiff on its side. Han 
and almost everything else on board slides overboard. The rope breaks, 
and Lando falls to the side of the Sarlacc pit. Luckily, Han's foot 
catches on the skiff railing and he dangles above Lando and the pit. 
The wounded Wookiee holds onto the skiff for dear life as another hit 
from the deck gun rocks the skiff violently.

HAN
Whoa! Whoa! Grab me, Chewie! I'm slipping.

Chewie grabs hold of Han's feet, holding him upside down, as Han 
extends the spear toward Lando, who is clutching to the side of the 
pit.

HAN
Grab it! L--Lando. Grab!

Luke finishes off the last guard on the second skiff. He sees the deck 
gun blasting away at his helpless companions. Luke leaps from the 
skiff, across a chasm of air, to the sheer metallic side of the Sail 
Barge. Barely able to get a fingerhold, he begins a painful climb up 
the hull, when suddenly an ax smashes through a window an inch from his 
head. With Jedi agility, Luke grasps the wrist holding the ax and yanks 
the helpless guard through the broken window and into the deadly pit.

The injured Chewie is reaching over the rail for the dangling Han, who 
is in turn blindly reaching down toward the desperate Lando. The Baron 
has stopped his slippage down the sandy slope of the Sarlacc pit by 
lying very still. Every time he tries to reach for Han, the loose sand 
moves him closer to his final reward.

HAN
Grab it! Almost... You almost got it!

Another blast hits the front of the tilted skiff, causing Lando to let 
go of the spear.

LANDO
Hold it! Whoa!

Again Han extends the spear toward Lando.

HAN
Gently now. All... all right. Now easy, easy. Hold me, Chewie.

Lando screams. One of the Sarlacc's tentacles has wrapped tightly 
around his ankle, dragging him down the side of the pit.

HAN
Chewie! Chewie, give me the gun. Don't move, Lando.

LANDO
No, wait! I thought you were blind!

HAN
It's all right. Trust me. Don't move.

LANDO
All right! A little higher! Just a little higher!

Han adjusts his aim as Lando lowers his head, and the fuzzy-eyed pirate 
fires at the tentacle. Direct hit. The tentacle releases Lando, and 
Chewie starts to pull them on board the skiff.

HAN
Chewie, Pull us up! Come on! Okay... up, Chewie, up!

38   EXT UPPER DECK

The deck gunners have Chewie and the desperate dangling human chain in 
their gun sights when something up on deck commands their attention: 
Luke, standing before them like a pirate king, ignites his lightsaber. 
The deck gunners have barely reached for their pistols before the young 
Jedi has demolished them. Immediately, Luke turns to see two more 
gunners (who have been uncovering a giant gun at the end of the barge) 
racing for him, firing their laser pistols.

39   INT SAIL BARGE - OBSERVATION DECK

Leia is struggling against her chains in desperation as Artoo zips 
through the tumult of confused monsters to the rescue; the stubby 
little droid extends a small laser gun and blasts the chain apart.

LEIA
Come on. We gotta get out of here quick.

Artoo and Leia race for the exit, passing Threepio, who is kicking and 
screaming as Salacious Crumb, the reptilian monkey- monster picks out 
one of the golden droid's eyes.

THREEPIO
Not my eyes! Artoo, help! Quickly, Artoo. Oh! Ohhh! You beast!

Artoo zips over and zaps Salacious, sending him skyward with a scream, 
crashing into the rafters as Artoo, Leia, and Threepio (with his eye 
dangling from a wire) hurry off.

40   EXT UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE

Luke is warding off laser blasts with his lightsaber, surrounded by 
guards and fighting like a demon. Leia emerges onto the deck as Luke 
turns to face another guard.

LUKE	 (to Leia)
Get the gun! Point it at the deck!

Leia turns toward the barge cannon, climbs on the platform, and swivels 
the gun around.

LUKE
Point it at the deck!

A laser blast hits Luke's mechanical hand and he bends over in pain, 
but manages to swing his lightsaber upward and take out the last of the 
guards. He looks at the wounded hand, which reveals the mechanism. He 
flexes the hand; it still works.

Near the rail of the upper deck, Artoo and Threepio steady themselves 
as Threepio gets ready to jump. Artoo beeps wildly.

THREEPIO
Artoo, where are we going? I couldn't possibly jump.

Artoo butts the golden droid over the edge and steps off himself, 
tumbling toward the sand.

Luke runs along the empty deck toward Leia and the barge gun, which she 
has brought around to point down at the deck.

LUKE
Come on!

Luke has hold on one of the rigging ropes from the mast. He gathers 
Leia in his other arm and kicks the trigger of the deck gun. The gun 
explodes into the deck as Luke and Leia swing out toward the skiff.

41   EXT SKIFF  

Han leans panting against the rail as Chewie helps Lando onto the deck. 
Luke and Leia land on the skiff with flair.

LUKE
Let's go! And don't forget the droids.

LANDO
We're on our way.

The Sail Barge is exploding in stages in the distance. Half of the huge 
craft is on fire.

42   EXT SAND DUNE

Threepio's legs stick straight up from the dune where he landed. Next 
to it, Artoo's periscope is the only thing above the sand. The skiff 
floats above them and two large electromagnets dangle down on a wire. 
With a loud CLANG, both droids are pulled 
from the sand.

43   EXT DUNE SEA

The little skiff skips around the burning Sail Barge, which continues 
its chain of explosions. As the skiff sails off across the desert, the 
barge settles to the sand and disappears in one final conflagration.

44   EXT DUNE SEA - LANDING AREA

A ferocious sandstorm blocks our view. Then, through the ROAR, we HEAR 
THE VOICES of our heroes. They emerge slowly from the veil of sand, 
pressing on against the wind. First come Artoo and Threepio, followed 
by Leia guiding Han, then Luke and Lando come into view, each 
supporting one side of the towering Chewbacca, who hobbles from his 
wound.

Soon, they can make out some large vague shapes in the blowing sand. It 
is the Millennium Falcon and, parked beside it, Luke's trusty X-wing 
and a two-seated Y-wing. They must shout to be heard.

HAN
I don't know. All I can see is a lot of blowing sand!

LEIA
That's all any of us can see.

HAN	 (blinking)
Then I guess I'm getting better.

As soon as the group huddles under the bulk of the Falcon, the wind 
dies down to something more describable as a severe weather condition. 
Threepio hits a switch, and the gang-plank lowers with a HUM.

HAN 	(turning to Luke)
I've got to hand it to you, kid, you were pretty good out there.

LUKE	 (shrugging it off)
I had a lot of help. Think nothing of it.

HAN
No, I'm thinking a lot about it. That carbon freeze was the closest 
thing to dead there is. And it wasn't just sleepin'. It was a big wide 
awake nothing!

Luke nods, as Chewie growls affectionately at the young Jedi warrior, 
mussing his hair like a proud uncle. And Leia warmly hugs him.

LUKE 	(moving to his ship)
I'll see you back at the fleet.

HAN
Why don't you leave that crate and come with us?

LUKE
I have a promise I have to keep first... to an old friend.

Luke and Artoo take off in their spacecraft.

HAN		
(looking dubiously at Lando, obviously remembering his friend's 
betrayal and subsequent aide)
Guess I owe you some thanks, too, Lando.

LANDO
Figured if I left you frozen like that you'd just give me bad luck the 
rest of my life, so I might as well get you unfrozen sooner or later.

LEIA
He means "You're welcome."

LANDO
Come on, let's get off this miserable dust ball.

44A  EXT SPACE ABOVE TATOOINE 

The desolate yellow planet fills the screen, Luke's X-wing appears and 
peels off to the left. A moment later, the FALCON appears as a dot and 
grows huge, to roar directly over the CAMERA.

45   INT X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke is at the controls, with Artoo attached behind him outside the 
canopy. Luke speaks into his comlink to the others, in the MILLENNIUM 
FALCON.

LUKE
I'll meet you back at the fleet.

LEIA	 (over comlink)
Hurry. The Alliance should be assembled by now.

LUKE
I will.

HAN	 (over comlink)
Hey, Luke, thanks. Thanks for comin' after me. Now I owe you one.

A message from Artoo appears on the small monitor screen in front of 
Luke. He smiles at the monitor and speaks to Artoo, as he pulls a black 
glove on to cover his wounded mechanical hand.

LUKE
That's right, Artoo. We're going to the Dagobah system. I have a 
promise to keep... to an old friend.

46   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR AND ENDOR

A Super Star Destroyer and several ships of the Imperial Fleet rest in 
space above the half-completed Death Star and its green neighbor, 
Endor. Four squads of TIE fighters escort an Imperial shuttle toward 
the Death Star.

47   INT DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO DOCKING BAY

Lord Vader strides down the hallway, accompanied by a very nervous 
Death Star commander.

48   INT DOCKING BAY - DEATH STAR

Thousands of Imperial troops in tight formation fill the mammoth 
docking bay. Vader and the officer walk to the landing platform, where 
the shuttle is coming to rest.

The shuttle's ramp lowers and the Emperor's Royal Guards come out and 
create a lethal perimeter. The assembled troops move to rigid attention 
with a momentous SNAP.

Then, in the huge SILENCE which follows, the EMPEROR appears. He is a 
rather small, shriveled old man. His bent frame slowly makes its way 
down the ramp with the aid of a gnarled cane. He wears a hooded cloak 
similar to the one Ben wears, except that it is black. The Emperor's 
face is shrouded and difficult to see, except for his piercing yellow 
eyes. Commander Jerjerrod and Darth Vader kneel to him. The Supreme 
Ruler of the galaxy beckons to the Dark Lord.

EMPEROR	 (to Vader)
Rise, my friend.

Vader rises and falls in next to the Emperor as he slowly makes his way 
along the rows of troops. Jerjerrod and the other commanders stay 
kneeling until the Supreme Ruler and Vader, followed by several 
Imperial dignitaries, pass by; only then do they join in the 
procession.

VADER
The Death Star will be completed on schedule.

EMPEROR
You have done well, Lord Vader. And now I sense you wish to continue 
your search for young Skywalker.

VADER
Yes, my Master.

EMPEROR
Patience, my friend. In time he will seek you out. And when he does, 
you must bring him
before me. He has grown strong. Only together can we turn him to the 
dark side of the
Force.

VADER
As you wish.

EMPEROR
Everything is proceeding as I have foreseen.

He laughs to himself as they pass along the vast line of Imperial 
troops.

49   EXT YODA'S HOUSE - DAGOBAH

Once again, Artoo finds himself waiting around in the damp environs of 
the swamp planet, and he's none too happy about it. He beeps 
disconsolately to himself and turns to look at Yoda's cottage. Warm 
yellow light escapes the oddly shaped windows to fight the gloom.

50   INT YODA'S HOUSE

The tip of a walking stick taps hesitantly across the earthen floor of 
the cottage. Our view travels up the stick to the small green hand that 
clutches it, and then to the familiar face of YODA, THE JEDI MASTER. 
His manner is frail, and his voice, though cheerful, seems weaker.

YODA
Hmm. That face you make. Look I so old to young eyes?

Luke is sitting in a corner of the cramped space and, indeed, his look 
has been woeful. Caught, he tries to hide it.

LUKE
No... of course not.

YODA	 (tickled, chuckles)
I do, yes, I do!  Sick have I become. Old and weak. 
(Points a crooked finger)
When nine hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not. Hmm?

Yoda chuckles at this, coughs, and hobbles over toward his bed.

YODA
Soon will I rest. Yes, forever sleep. Earned it, I have.

Yoda sits himself on his bed, with great effort.

LUKE
Master Yoda, you can't die.

YODA
Strong am I with the Force... but not that strong! Twilight is upon me 
and soon night must fall. That is the way of things... the way of the 
Force.

LUKE
But I need your help. I've come back to complete the training.

YODA
No more training do you require. Already know you that which you need.

Yoda sighs, and lies back on his bed.

LUKE
Then I am a Jedi?

YODA	 (shakes his head)
Ohhh. Not yet. One thing remains: Vader. You must confront Vader. Then, 
only then, a Jedi will you be. And confront him you will.

Luke is in agony. He is silent for a long moment, screwing up his 
courage. Finally he is able to ask.

LUKE
Master Yoda... is Darth Vader my father?

Yoda's eyes are full of weariness and compassion. An odd, sad smile 
creases his face. He turns painfully on his side, away from Luke.

YODA
Mmm... rest I need. Yes... rest.

Luke watches him, each moment an eternity.

LUKE
Yoda, I must know.

YODA
Your father he is.

Luke reacts as if cut.

YODA
Told you, did he?

LUKE
Yes.

A new look of concern crosses Yoda's face.  He closes his eyes.

YODA
Unexpected this is, and unfortunate...

LUKE
Unfortunate that I know the truth?

Yoda opens his eyes again and studies the youth.

YODA		 (gathering all his strength)
No. Unfortunate that you rushed to face him... that incomplete was your 
training. Not
ready for the burden were you.

LUKE
Well, I'm sorry.

YODA
Remember, a Jedi's strength flows from the Force.  But beware.  Anger, 
fear, aggression.
The dark side are they.  Once you start down the dark path, forever 
will it dominate your
destiny.

He beckons the young Jedi closer to him.

YODA
Luke...Luke...Do not...Do not underestimate the powers of the Emperor, 
or suffer your father's fate, you will. Luke, when gone am I
(cough),
the last of the Jedi will you be. Luke, the Force runs strong in your 
family. Pass on what you have learned, Luke... 
(with great effort)
There is...another...Sky...Sky...walker.

He catches his breath. A shiver runs through the ancient green 
creature, and he dies. Luke stares at his dead master as he disappears 
in front of his eyes.

51   EXT DAGOBAH SWAMP - X-WING 

Luke wanders back to where his ship is sitting. Artoo beeps a greeting, 
but is ignored by his depressed master. Luke kneels down, begins to 
help Artoo with the ship, then stops and shakes his head dejectedly.

LUKE
I can't do it, Artoo. I can't go on alone.

BEN	 (OS)
Yoda will always be with you.

Luke looks up to see the shimmering image of BEN KENOBI.

LUKE
Obi-Wan! Why didn't you tell me?

The ghost of Ben Kenobi approaches him through the swamp.

LUKE
You told me Vader betrayed and murdered my father.

BEN
You father was seduced by the dark side of the Force. He ceased to be 
Anakin Skywalker
and became Darth Vader. When that happened, the good man who was your 
father was destroyed. So what I have told you was true... from a 
certain point of view.

LUKE	 (turning away, derisive)
A certain point of view!

BEN
Luke, you're going to find that many of the truths we cling to depend 
greatly on our own
point of view.

Luke is unresponsive. Ben studies him in silence for a moment.

BEN
I don't blame you for being angry. If I was wrong in what I did, it 
certainly wouldn't have been for the first time. You see, what happened 
to your father was my fault.

Ben pauses sadly.

BEN
Anakin was a good friend.

Luke turns with interest at this. As Ben speaks, Luke settles on a 
stump, mesmerized. Artoo comes over to offer his comforting presence.

BEN
When I first knew him, your father was already a great pilot. But I was 
amazed how strongly the Force was with him. I took it upon myself to 
train him as a Jedi. I thought that I could instruct him just as well 
as Yoda. I was wrong. My pride has had terrible consequences for the 
galaxy.

Luke is entranced.

LUKE
There's still good in him.

BEN
I also thought he could be turned back to the good side. It couldn't be 
done. He is more machine now than man. Twisted and evil.

LUKE
I can't do it, Ben.

BEN
You cannot escape your destiny.

LUKE
I tried to stop him once. I couldn't do it.

BEN
Vader humbled you when first you met him, Luke... but that experience 
was part of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value 
of patience. Had you not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you 
could have finished your training here with Yoda. You would have been 
prepared.

LUKE
But I had to help my friends.

BEN	 (grinning at Luke's indignation)
And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achieved 
little by rushing back prematurely, I fear.

LUKE	 (with sadness)
I found out Darth Vader was my father.

BEN
To be a Jedi, Luke, you must confront and then go beyond the dark side 
- the side your father couldn't get past. Impatience is the easiest 
door - for you, like your father. Only, your father was seduced by what 
he found on the other side of the door, and you have held firm. You're 
no longer so reckless now, Luke. You are strong and patient. And now, 
you must face Darth Vader again!

LUKE
I can't kill my own father.

BEN
Then the Emperor has already won. You were our only hope.

LUKE
Yoda spoke of another.

BEN
The other he spoke of is your twin sister.

LUKE
But I have no sister.

BEN
Hmm. To protect you both from the Emperor, you were hidden from your 
father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were 
to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the 
reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.

LUKE
Leia! Leia's my sister.

BEN
Your insight serves you well. Bury your feelings deep down, Luke. They 
do you credit.
But they could be made to serve the Emperor.

Luke looks into the distance, trying to comprehend all this.

BEN	 (continuing his narrative)
When your father left, he didn't know your mother was pregnant. Your 
mother and I knew he would find out eventually, but we wanted to keep 
you both as safe as possible, for as long as possible.  So I took you 
to live with my brother Owen on Tatooine... and your mother took Leia 
to live as the daughter of Senator Organa, on Alderaan.

Luke turns, and settles near Ben to hear the tale.

BEN	 (attempting to give solace with his words)
The Organa household was high-born and politically quite powerful in 
that system. Leia became a princess by virtue of lineage... no one knew 
she'd been adopted, of course. But it was a title without real power, 
since Alderaan had long been a democracy.  Even so, the family 
continued to be politically powerful, and Leia, following in her foster 
father's path, became a senator as well.  That's not all she became, of 
course... she became the leader of her cell in the Alliance against the 
corrupt Empire. And because she had diplomatic immunity, she was a 
vital link for getting information to the Rebel cause.  That's what she 
was doing when her path crossed yours... for her foster parents had 
always told her to contact me on Tatooine, if her troubles became 
desperate.

Luke is overwhelmed by the truth, and is suddenly protective of his 
sister.

LUKE
But you can't let her get involved now, Ben. Vader will destroy her.

BEN
She hasn't been trained in the ways of the Jedi the way you have, 
Luke... but the Force is strong with her, as it is with all of your 
family. There is no avoiding the battle. You must face and destroy 
Vader!

52   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

The vast Rebel Fleet stretches as far as the eye can see. Overhead a 
dozen small Corellian battleships fly in formation. Fighters and 
battlecruisers surround the largest of the Rebel Star Cruisers, the 
HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE.

53   INT HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN BRIEFING ROOM

Hundreds of Rebel commanders of all races and forms are assembled in 
the WAR ROOM. WEDGE is among them. In the center of the room is a 
holographic model depicting the half-completed Imperial Death Star, the 
nearby Moon of Endor, and the protecting deflector shield.

MON MOTHMA, the leader of the Alliance, enters the room. She is a stern 
but beautiful woman in her fifties. Conferring with her are several 
military leaders, including GENERAL MADINE and ADMIRAL ACKBAR (a 
salmon-colored Mon Calamari). Lando moves through the crowd until he 
finds Han and Chewie, standing next to Leia and the two droids.

Han peers at Lando's new insignia on his chest, and is amused.

HAN
Well, look at you, a general, huh?

 LANDO
 Oh, well, someone must have told them about my little maneuver at the 
battle of Taanab.

HAN	 (sarcastic)
Well, don't look at me, pal. I just said you were a fair pilot. I 
didn't know they were
lookin' for somebody to lead this crazy attack.

LANDO	 (smiling)
I'm surprised they didn't ask you to do it.

HAN
Well, who says they didn't.  But I ain't crazy. You're the respectable 
one, remember?

Mon Mothma signals for attention, and the room falls silent.

MON MOTHMA
The Emperor has made a critical error and the time for our attack has 
come.

This causes a stir. Mon Mothma turns to a holographic model of the 
Death Star, the Endor moon and the protecting deflector shield in the 
center of the room.

MON MOTHMA
The data brought to us by the Bothan spies pinpoints the exact location 
of the Emperor's new battle station. We also know that the weapon 
systems of this Death Star are not yet operational. With the Imperial 
Fleet spread throughout the galaxy in a vain effort to engage us, it is 
relatively unprotected. But most important of all, we've learned that 
the Emperor himself is personally overseeing the final stages of the 
construction of this Death Star.

A volley of spirited chatter erupts from the crowd. Han turns to Leia 
as Chewie barks his amazement.

MON MOTHMA	 (cont)
Many Bothans died to bring us this information. Admiral Ackbar, please.

Admiral Ackbar steps forward and points to the Death Star's force field 
and the Moon of Endor.

ACKBAR
You can see here the Death Star orbiting the forest Moon of Endor. 
Although the weapon
systems on this Death Star are not yet operational, the Death Star does 
have a strong defense mechanism. It is protected by an energy shield, 
which is generated from the nearby forest Moon of Endor. The shield 
must be deactivated if any attack is to be attempted. Once the shield 
is down, our cruisers will create a perimeter, while the fighters fly 
into the superstructure and attempt to knock out the main reactor.

There's a concerned murmur.

ACKBAR	 (cont)
General Calrissian has volunteered to lead the fighter attack

Han turns to Lando with a look of respect.

HAN
Good luck.

Lando nods his thanks.

HAN
You're gonna need it.

ACKBAR
General Madine.

Madine moves center stage.

GENERAL MADINE
We have stolen a small Imperial shuttle. Disguised as a cargo ship, and 
using a secret
Imperial code, a strike team will land on the moon and deactivate the 
shield generator.

The assembly begins to mumble among themselves.

THREEPIO
Sounds dangerous.

LEIA	 (to Han)
I wonder who they found to pull that off.

GENERAL MADINE
General Solo, is your strike team assembled?

Leia, startled, looks up at Han, surprise changing to admiration.

HAN
Uh, my team's ready. I don't have a command crew for the shuttle.

Chewbacca raises his hairy paw and volunteers.  Han looks up at him.

HAN
Well, it's gonna be rough, pal. I didn't want to speak for you.

Chewie waves that off with a huge GROWL.

HAN	 (smiles)
That's one.

LEIA
Uh, General... count me in.

VOICE	 (OS)
I'm with you, too!

They turn in that direction and peer into the crowd as there are more 
cheers. The commanders part, and there at the back stands Luke. Han and 
Leia are surprised and delighted.

Leia moves to Luke and embraces him warmly. She senses a change in him 
and looks into his eyes questioningly.

LEIA
 What is it?

LUKE	 (hesitant)
Ask me again sometime.

Han, Chewie, and Lando crowd around Luke as the assembly breaks up.

HAN
Luke.

LUKE
Hi, Han... Chewie.

Artoo beeps a singsong observation to a worried Threepio.

 THREEPIO
"Exciting" is hardly the word I would use.

54   INT HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The Millennium Falcon rests beyond the stolen IMPERIAL SHUTTLE, which 
looks anomalous among all the Rebel ships in the vast docking bay. 
Chewie barks a final farewell to Lando and leads Artoo and Threepio up 
the shuttle, crowded now with the Rebel strike team loading weapons and 
supplies. Lando turns to face Han. Luke and Leia have said their good-
byes and start up the ramp.

HAN
Look. I want you to take her. I mean it. Take her. You need all the 
help you can get. She's
the fastest ship in the fleet.

LANDO
All right, old buddy. You know, I know what she means to you. I'll take 
good care of her.
She-she won't get a scratch. All right?

HAN	 (looks at him warmly)
Right. I got your promise now. Not a scratch.

LANDO
Look, would you get going, you pirate.

Han and Lando pause, then exchange salutes.

LANDO
Good luck.

HAN
You, too.

Han goes up the ramp. Lando watches him go and then slowly turns away.

55   INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

Luke is working on a back control panel as Han comes in and takes the 
pilot's seat. Chewie, in the seat next to him, is trying to figure out 
all the Imperial controls.

HAN
You got her warmed?

LUKE
Yeah, she's comin' up.

Chewie growls a complaint.

HAN
No. I don't think the Empire had Wookiees in mind when they designed 
her, Chewie.

Leia comes in from the hold and takes her seat near Luke.

Chewie barks and hits some switches. Han's glance has stuck on 
something out the window: the Millennium Falcon. Leia nudges him 
gently.

LEIA
Hey, are you awake?

HAN
Yeah, I just got a funny feeling. Like I'm not gonna see her again.

Chewie, hearing this, stops his activity and looks longingly out at the 
Falcon, too. Leia puts a hand on Han's shoulder.

LEIA	 (softly)
Come on, General, let's move.

Han snaps back to life.

HAN
Right. Chewie, let's see what this piece of junk can do. Ready, 
everybody?

LUKE
All set.

THREEPIO
Here we go again.

HAN
All right, hang on.

56   EXT SPACE - THE REBEL FLEET

The stolen Imperial shuttle leaves the main docking bay of the 
Headquarters Frigate, lowers its wings into flight position, and zooms 
off into space.

57   INT EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

The converted control room is dimly lit, except for a pool of light at 
the far end. There the Emperor sits in an elaborate control chair 
before a large window which looks out across the half-completed Death 
Star to the giant green moon of Endor.

Darth Vader, standing with other members of the Imperial council, 
cautiously approaches his master. The ruler's back is to Vader. After 
several tense moments, the Emperor's chair rotates around to face him.

VADER
What is thy bidding, my Master?

EMPEROR
Send the fleet to the far side of Endor. There it will stay until 
called for.

VADER
What of the reports of the Rebel fleet massing near Sullust?

EMPEROR
It is of no concern. Soon the Rebellion will be crushed and young 
Skywalker will be one of us! Your work here is finished, my friend. Go 
out to the command ship and await my orders.

VADER
Yes, my Master.

Vader bows, then turns and exits the throne room as the Emperor walks 
toward the waiting council members.

58   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR - MOON

There is a great deal of Imperial traffic in the area as construction 
proceeds on the Death Star. Transports, TIE fighters, and a few Star 
Destroyers move about. Now the huge Super Star Destroyer announces 
itself with a low roar and soon fills the frame.

59   INT STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

Han looks back at Luke and Leia as Chewie flips several switches. 
Through the viewscreen, the Death Star and the huge Super Star 
Destroyer can be seen.

HAN
If they don't go for this, we're gonna have to get outta here pretty 
quick, Chewie.

Chewie growls his agreement.

CONTROLLER	 (over radio)
We have you on our screen now. Please identify.

HAN
Shuttle Tydirium requesting deactivation of the deflector shield.

CONTROLLER	 (over radio)
Shuttle Tydirium, transmit the clearance code for shield passage.

HAN
Transmission commencing.

Leia and Chewbacca listen tensely as the sound of a high speed 
transmission begins.

LEIA
Now we find out if that code is worth the price we paid.

HAN
It'll work. It'll work.

Chewie whines nervously. Luke stares at the Huge Super Star Destroyer 
that looms ever larger before them.

LUKE
Vader's on that ship.

HAN
Now don't get jittery, Luke. There are a lot of command ships. Keep 
your distance though, Chewie, but don't look like you're trying to keep 
your distance.

Chewie barks a question.

HAN
I don't know.  Fly casual.

LUKE
I'm endangering the mission. I shouldn't have come.

HAN
It's your imagination, kid. Come on. Let's keep a little optimism here.

Chewie barks his worries as the Super Star Destroyer grows larger out 
the window.

60   INT VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Lord Vader stands, back to us, staring out a window at the Death Star. 
Now, some vibration felt only by him causes him to turn. After a moment 
of stillness, he walks down the row of controllers to where ADMIRAL 
PIETT is leaning over the tracking screen of the controller we've seen 
earlier. Piett straightens at Vader's approach.

VADER
Where is that shuttle going?

PIETT	 (into comlink)
Shuttle Tydirium, what is your cargo and destination?

PILOT VOICE    (HAN)   (filtered)
Parts and technical crew for the forest moon.

The Bridge Commander looks to Vader for a reaction.

VADER
Do they have a code clearance?

PIETT
It's an older code, sir, but it checks out. I was about to clear them.

Vader looks upward, as he senses Luke's presence.

PIETT
Shall I hold them?

VADER
No. Leave them to me. I will deal with them myself.

PIETT	 (surprised)
As you wish, my lord.
(to controller)
Carry on.

Piett nods at controller, who switches on his comlink.

61   INT STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

The group waits tensely.

HAN
They're not goin' for it, Chewie.

CONTROLLER	 (filtered)
Shuttle Tydirium, deactivation of the shield will commence immediately. 
Follow your
present course.

Everyone breaths a sigh of relief. Everyone but Luke, who looks 
worried. Chewie barks.

HAN
Okay! I told you it was gonna work. No problem.

62   EXT SPACE - STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - ENDOR

The stolen Imperial shuttle moves off toward the green Sanctuary Moon.

63   EXT FOREST LANDING SITE - ENDOR

The stolen Imperial shuttle sits in a clearing of the moon's dark, 
primeval forest, dwarfed by the ancient towering trees.

On an adjacent hill, the helmeted Rebel contingent makes its way up a 
steep trail. Leia and Han are slightly ahead of Chewie and Luke. The 
troops of the strike-team squad follow, with Artoo and Threepio 
bringing up the rear. Artoo beeps.

Up ahead, Chewie and Leia reach a crest in the hill and drop suddenly 
to the ground, signaling the rest of the group to stop. Han and Luke 
crawl up to take a look.

THREEPIO
Oh, I told you it was dangerous here.

THEIR POV. Not far below them, two IMPERIAL SCOUTS are wandering 
through bushes in the valley below. Their two ROCKET BIKES are parked 
nearby.

LEIA
Shall we try and go around?

HAN
It'll take time. This whole party'll be for nothing if they see us.

Leia motions for the squad to stay put, then she, Han, Luke and Chewie 
start quietly down.

64   EXT FOREST CLEARING - CAMPSITE

The four friends make their way to the edge of the clearing not far 
from the two Imperial scouts.

HAN
Chewie and I will take care of this. You stay here.

LUKE
Quietly, there might be more of them out there.

HAN	 (grins)
Hey... it's me.

Han and Chewie turn and start through the bushes toward the scouts. 
Luke and Leia exchange smiles.

Han sneaks up behind one of the scouts, steps on a twig and the scout 
whirls, knocking Han into a tree. The scout shouts for his companion.

SCOUT #1
Go for help! Go!

The second scout jumps on his speeder bike and takes off, but Chewie 
gets off a shot on his crossbow laser weapon, causing the scout to 
crash into a tree. Han and Scout #1 are in a rousing fistfight.

LUKE	 (sarcastic)
Great. Come on.

Luke starts for the scuffle, followed by Leia with her laser pistol 
drawn. As they run through the bushes, Leia stops and points to where 
two more scouts are sitting on their speeder bikes, with an unoccupied 
bike parked nearby.

LEIA
Over there! Two more of them!

LUKE
I see them. Wait, Leia!

But Leia doesn't hear him and races for the remaining speeder bike. She 
starts it up and takes off as Luke jumps on the bike behind her.

LUKE	 (pointing to the controls)
Quick! Jam their comlink. Center switch!

Luke and Leia speed into the dense foliage in hot pursuit, barely 
avoiding two huge trees.

HAN
Hey, wait! Ahhh!

He flips the remaining scout to the ground.

65   EXT FOREST - THE BIKE CHASE

The two fleeing Imperial scouts have a good lead as Luke and Leia 
pursue through the giant trees at 200 miles an hour, the fire from 
their bike's laser cannon hitting harmlessly near the moving targets.

LUKE
Move closer!

Leia guns it, closing the gap, as the two scouts recklessly veer 
through a narrow gap in the trees. One of the bikes SCRAPES a tree, 
slowing the scout.

LUKE
Get alongside that one!

Leia pulls her speeder bike up so close to the scout's bike that their 
steering vanes SCRAPE noisily. Luke leaps from his bike to the back of 
the scout's, grabs the Imperial warrior around the neck, and flips him 
off the bike, into a thick tree trunk. Luke gains control of the bike 
and follows Leia, who has pulled ahead. They tear off after the 
remaining scout.

LUKE
Get him!

The speeding chase passes TWO MORE IMPERIAL SCOUTS. These two swing 
into pursuit, chasing Luke and Leia, firing away with their laser 
cannon. The two Rebels look behind them just as Luke's bike takes a 
glancing hit.

LUKE	 (indicating the one ahead)
Keep on that one! I'll take these two!

With Leia shooting ahead, Luke suddenly slams his steering vanes into 
the braking mode. Luke's bike is a blur to the two pursuing scouts as 
they zip by him on either side. Luke slams his bike into forward and 
starts firing away, having switched places with his pursuers in a 
manner of seconds. Luke's aim is good and one scout's bike is blasted 
out of control. It explodes against a tree trunk.

The scout's cohort takes one glance back at the flash and shifts into 
turbo drive, going even faster. Luke keeps on his tail.

FAR AHEAD, Leia and the first scout are doing a highspeed slalom 
through the death-dealing trunks. Now Leia aims her bike skyward and 
rises out of sight.

The scout turns in confusion, unable to see his pursuer. Suddenly, Leia 
dives down upon him from above, cannon blasting. The scout's bike takes 
a glancing hit.

Leia moves in alongside him. The scout eyes her beside him, reaches 
down, and pulls out a handgun. Before Leia can react, the scout has 
blasted her bike, sending it out of control. Leia dives off as her bike 
explodes against a tree. The happy scout looks back at the explosion. 
But when he turns forward again, he is on a collision course with a 
giant fallen tree. He hits his brakes to no avail and disappears in a 
conflagration.

ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST: Luke and the last remaining scout continue 
their weaving chase through the trees. Now Luke moves up close. The 
scout responds by slamming his bike into Luke's. A fallen tree forms a 
bridge across their path. The scout zips under. Luke goes over the top 
and crashes his bike down on the scout's. Both riders look ahead - a 
wide trunk looms directly in Luke's path, but the scout's bike beside 
him makes it almost impossible for him to avoid it. Luke banks with all 
his might, leaning almost horizontal over the scout's bike, and is able 
to make it by, just clipping the tree. When he straightens, he and the 
scout discover that their two bikes have locked front vanes and are 
moving as one.

Another big tree looms in Luke's path. He reacts instinctively and 
dives off his bike. The two bikes come apart a second before Luke's 
explodes against a tree. The scout sweeps out and circles back to find 
Luke.

Luke rises from the undergrowth as the scout bears down on him and 
opens fire with his laser cannon. Luke ignites his laser sword and 
begins deflecting the bolts. The scout's bike keeps coming and it 
appears that in a second it will cut Luke in half. At the last instant, 
Luke steps aside and chops off the bike's control vanes with one mighty 
slash. The scout's bike begins to shudder, then, pitching and rolling, 
it rises up to slam directly into a tree in a giant ball of fire.

66   EXT SCOUT CAMPSITE - FOREST

Han, Chewie, and the droids, along with the rest of the squad, wait 
anxiously in the clearing. Artoo's radar screen sticks out of his domed 
head and revolves, scanning the forest. He beeps.

THREEPIO
Oh, General Solo, somebody's coming. Oh!

Han, Chewie, and the rest of the squad raise their weapons.

Luke steps out of the foliage to find the weapons trained on him. He's 
too tired to care. He plops himself down on a boulder and looks around.

HAN
Luke! Where's Leia?

LUKE	 (concerned)
What? She didn't come back?

HAN
I thought she was with you.

LUKE
We got separated.

Luke and Han exchange a silent, grim look. Luke gets up wearily.

LUKE
Hey, we better go look for her.

Han nods, and signals to a Rebel officer.

HAN
Take the squad ahead.  We'll meet at the shield generator at 0300.

LUKE
Come on, Artoo.  We'll need your scanners.

Luke, Chewie, Han, and the droids move off in one direction as the 
squad proceeds in another.

THREEPIO
Don't worry, Master Luke.  We know what to do.

They move off into the woods.

THREEPIO	 (to Artoo)
And you said it was pretty here. Ugh!

67   EXT FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE

A strange little furry face with huge black eyes comes slowly into 
view. The creature is an EWOK, by the name of WICKET. He seems somewhat 
puzzled, and prods Leia with a spear. The princess groans; this 
frightens the stubby ball of fuzz and he prods her again. Leia sits up 
and stares at the three-foot-high Ewok. She tries to figure out where 
she is and what has happened. Her clothes are torn; she's bruised and 
disheveled.

The Ewok jumps up and grabs a four-foot-long spear, which he holds in a 
defensive position. Leia watches him as he circles warily and begins 
poking her with the sharp point of the spear.

LEIA
Cut it out!

She stands up, and the Ewok quickly backs away.

LEIA
I'm not gonna hurt you.

Leia looks around at the dense forest, and at the charred remains of 
her speeder bike, then sits down, with a sigh, on a fallen log.

LEIA
Well, looks like I'm stuck here. Trouble is, I don't know where here 
is.

She puts her head in her hands to rub away some of the soreness from 
her fall. She looks over at the watchful little Ewok and pats the log 
beside her.

LEIA
Well, maybe you can help me. Come on, sit down.

Wicket holds his spear up warily and growls at her like a puppy. Leia 
pats the log again.

LEIA
I promise I won't hurt you. Now come here.

More growls and squeaks from the little bear creature.

LEIA
All right. You want something to eat?

She takes a scrap of food out of her pocket and offers it to him. 
Wicket takes a step backward, then cocks his head and moves cautiously 
toward Leia, chattering in his squeaky Ewok language.

LEIA
That's right. Come on. Hmmm?

Sniffing the food curiously, the Ewok comes toward Leia and sits on the 
log beside her. She takes off her helmet, and the little creature jumps 
back, startled again. He runs along the log, pointing his spear at her 
and chattering a blue streak. Leia holds out the helmet to him.

LEIA
Look, it's a hat. It's not gonna hurt you. Look. You're a jittery 
little thing, aren't you?

Reassured, Wicket lowers his spear and climbs back on the log, coming 
to investigate the helmet. Suddenly his ears perk up and he begins to 
sniff the air. He looks around warily, whispering some Ewokese warning 
to Leia.

LEIA
What is it?

Suddenly a laser bolt comes out of the foliage and explodes on the log 
next to Leia. Leia and Wicket both roll backwards off the log, hiding 
behind it. Leia holds her own laser gun ready, while Wicket disappears 
underneath the log. Another shot, and still no sight of anyone in the 
forest. Then Leia senses something and turns to find a large IMPERIAL 
SCOUT standing over her with his weapon pointed at her head. He reaches 
out his hand for her weapon.

SCOUT #l
Freeze!  Come on, get up!

She hands the weapon over, as a second scout emerges from the foliage 
in front of the log.

SCOUT #1
Go get your ride and take her back to base.

SCOUT #2
Yes, sir.

The second scout starts toward his bike, as Wicket, crouched under the 
log, extends his spear and hits the first scout on the leg. The scout 
jumps and lets out an exclamation, and looks down at Wicket, puzzled. 
Leia grabs a branch and knocks him out. She dives for his laser pistol, 
and the second scout, now on his bike, takes off. Leia fires away and 
hits the escaping bike, causing it to crash into the first scout's 
bike, which flies end over end and explodes. The forest is quiet once 
more. Wicket pokes his fuzzy head up from behind the log and regards 
Leia with√änew respect. He mumbles his awe. Leia hurries over, looking 
around all the time, and motions the chubby little creature into the 
dense foliage.

LEIA
Come on, let's get outta here.

As they move into the foliage, Wicket takes the lead. He shrieks and 
tugs at Leia to follow him.

68   INT DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO EMPEROR'S TOWER

Darth Vader walks down the corridor to the Emperor's Tower and private 
elevator. The Emperor's private guard steps in Vader's path.

GUARD
Halt! The Emperor does not wish to be disturbed at the moment.

VADER        
(raising his gloved hand to the two guards and choking them with the 
Force)
The Emperor will see me, now!

GUARD
(repeating Vader's command)
The Emperor will see you, now.

69   INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Two red Imperial Guards stand watch at the elevator as the door opens 
to reveal Vader. Vader enters the eerie, foreboding throne room. It 
appears to be empty. His footsteps echo as he approaches the throne. He 
waits, absolutely still. The Emperor sits with his back to the Dark 
Lord.

EMPEROR
I told you to remain on the command ship.

VADER
A small Rebel force has penetrated the shield and landed on Endor.

EMPEROR	 (no surprise)
Yes, I know.

VADER	 (after a beat)
My son is with them.

EMPEROR	 (very cool)
Are you sure?

VADER
I have felt him, my Master.

EMPEROR
Strange, that I have not. I wonder if your feelings on this matter are 
clear, Lord
Vader.

Vader knows what is being asked.

VADER
They are clear, my Master.

EMPEROR
Then you must go to the Sanctuary Moon and wait for them.

VADER	 (skeptical)
He will come to me?

EMPEROR
I have foreseen it. His compassion for you will be his undoing. He will 
come to you and
then you will bring him before me.

VADER	 (bows)
As you wish.

The Dark Lord strides out of the throne room.

70   EXT FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE

Han, Luke, Chewie, and the two droids are spread out as they move 
through the heavy foliage near the clearing where we last saw Leia. 
Luke finds Leia's helmet, picks it up with an expression of concern.

HAN	 (OS)
Luke! Luke!

Luke runs with the helmet to where Han has found the charred wreckage 
of a speeder bike in the grass.

THREEPIO
Oh, Master Luke.

LUKE
There's two more wrecked speeders back there. And I found this.

He tosses the helmet to Han.

THREEPIO
I'm afraid that Artoo's sensors can find no trace of Princess Leia.

HAN	 (gravely)
I hope she's alright.

Chewbacca growls, sniffing the air, then, with a bark, pushes off 
through the foliage.

                              HAN
What, Chewie? What? Chewie!

The others rush to keep up with the giant Wookiee. As he scoots along, 
Artoo whistles nervously.

71   EXT FOREST - DENSE FOLIAGE

The group has reached a break in the undergrowth. Chewie walks up to a 
tall stake planted in the ground. There is a dead animal hanging from 
it.

HAN
Hey, I don't get it.

The rest of the group joins the Wookiee around the stake.

HAN	 (cont)
Nah, it's just a dead animal, Chewie.

Chewie can't resist. He reaches toward the meat.

LUKE
Chewie, wa-wait!  Don't!

Too late. The Wookiee has already pulled the animal from the stake. 
SPROOING! The group finds itself hanging upside down in an Ewok net, 
suspended high above the clearing. Artoo lets out a wild series of 
beeps and whistles, and Chewie howls his regret. Their bodies are a 
jumble in the net. Han removes a Wookiee paw from his mouth.

HAN
Nice work. Great, Chewie! Great! Always thinking with your stomach.

LUKE
Will you take it easy? Let's just figure out a way to get out of this 
thing. 
(trying to free an arm) 
Han, can you reach my lightsaber?

HAN
Yeah, sure.

Artoo is at the bottommost point in the net. He extends his cutting 
appendage and begins slicing at the net. Han is trying to squeeze an 
arm past Threepio to get at Luke's lightsaber. The net continues to 
spin.

THREEPIO
Artoo, I'm not sure that's such a good idea. It's a very long dro-o-
op!!

Artoo has cut through and the entire group tumbles out of the net, 
crashing to the ground. As they regain their senses and sit up, they 
realize they are surrounded by dozens of Ewoks, each brandishing a long 
spear.

HAN
Wha--?  Hey!  Point that thing someplace else.

Han pushes the spear wielded by TEEBO out of his face and a second Ewok 
warrior comes up to argue with Teebo. The spear returns to Han's face. 
He grabs it angrily and starts to go for his laser pistol.

HAN
Hey!

LUKE
Han, don't. It'll be all right.

The Ewoks swarm through them and confiscate their weapons. Luke lets 
them take his lightsaber. Chewie growls at the furry critters.

LUKE
Chewie, give 'em your crossbow.

Artoo and Threepio are just untangling themselves. Threepio gets free 
of the net and sits up, rattled.

THREEPIO
Oh, my head. Oh, my goodness!

When the Ewoks see Threepio, they let out a gasp and chatter among 
themselves. Threepio speaks to them in their native tongue. The Ewok 
nearest him drops his spear and prostrates himself before the droid. In 
a moment, all the Ewoks have followed suit. Chewie lets out a puzzled 
bark. Han and Luke regard the bowed creatures in wonder. The Ewoks 
begin to chant at Threepio.

LUKE
Do you understand anything they're saying?

THREEPIO
Oh, yes, Master Luke!  Remember that I am fluent in over six million 
forms of
communication.

HAN
What are you telling them?

THREEPIO
Hello, I think... I could be mistaken. They're using a very primitive 
dialect.  But
I do believe they think I am some sort of god.

Chewbacca and Artoo think that's very funny. Han and Luke exchange 
"what next?" looks.

HAN
Well, why don't you use your divine influence and get us out of this?

THREEPIO
I beg your pardon, General Solo, but that just wouldn't be proper.

HAN
Proper?!

THREEPIO
It's against my programming to impersonate a deity.

Han moves toward Threepio threateningly.

HAN
Why, you--

Several Ewoks' spears are thrust in Han's face at the affront to their 
god. The Ewoks move in to protect their god and Han is surrounded by a 
menacing circle of spears, all aimed at him. He holds up his hands 
placatingly.

HAN
My mistake. He's an old friend of mine.

72   EXT FOREST - SERIES OF SHOTS

A procession of Ewoks winds through the ever-darkening forest. Their 
prisoners - Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo - are tied to long poles and 
wrapped in vines, cocoonlike.

Each pole is carried on the shoulders of several Ewoks. Behind the 
captives, Threepio is carried on a litter, like a king, by the 
remaining creatures.

73   EXT FOREST WALKWAY - MOON FOREST

The procession moves along a shaky, narrow, wooden walkway, high in the 
giant trees. It stops at the end of the walkway, which drops off into 
nothingness. On the other side of the abyss is a village of mud huts 
and rickety walkways, attached to the giant trees. The lead Ewok takes 
hold of a long vine and swings across to the village square; the other 
Ewoks follow suit.

74   EXT EWOK VILLAGE SQUARE

The procession winds its way into the village square. Mother Ewoks 
gather their babies up and scurry into their huts at the sight of the 
newcomers. The group stops before the largest hut.

Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo are still bound to their poles. Han is 
placed on a spit above what looks like a barbecue pit and the others 
are leaned against a tree nearby. Threepio's litter/throne is gently 
placed near the pit. He watches with rapt fascination. Han, Luke, and 
Chewie are less than fascinated.

HAN
I have a really bad feeling about this.

Chewie growls his concern.

Suddenly all activity stops as LOGRAY, the tribal Medicine Man, comes 
out of the big hut. He examines the captives carefully, goes to join 
Threepio, whose throne has been placed on an elevated platform. A 
larger, gray-haired Ewok, CHIEF CHIRPA, is examining Luke's lightsaber 
with great curiosity.

Logray speaks to Threepio and the assemblage of fuzzy Ewoks, pointing 
to the prisoners tied to the stakes. The Ewoks begin filling the pit 
under Han with firewood.

HAN
What did he say?

THREEPIO
I'm rather embarrassed, General Solo, but it appears you are to be the 
main course at a
banquet in my honor.

The drums start beating, and all the furry heads turn to the large hut. 
Leia emerges, wearing an animal-skin dress. She sees what's happening 
at the same moment the prisoners see her.

HAN and LUKE
Leia!

As she moves toward them, the Ewoks block her way with raised spears.

LEIA
Oh!

THREEPIO
Your Royal Highness.

Artoo and Chewie chime in with their welcome. Leia looks at the 
assembled Ewoks and sighs.

LEIA
But these are my friends. Threepio, tell them they must be set free.

Threepio talks to Chirpa and Logray, who listen and shake their heads 
negatively. The Medicine Man gestures toward the prisoners and barks 
some orders. Several Ewoks jump up and pile more wood on the barbecue 
with vigor. Leia trades frantic looks with Luke and Han .

HAN
Somehow, I got the feeling that didn't help us very much.

LUKE
Threepio, tell them if they don't do as you wish, you'll become angry 
and use your magic.

THREEPIO
But Master Luke, what magic? I couldn't possibly --

LUKE
Just tell them.

Threepio speaks to the Ewoks. The Ewoks are disturbed. Logray steps 
forward and challenges Threepio. Luke closes his eyes and begins to 
concentrate.

THREEPIO
You see, Master Luke; they didn't believe me. Just...

Now the litter/throne, with Threepio sitting upon it, rises from the 
ground. At first Threepio doesn't notice and keeps talking.

THREEPIO
... as I said they wouldn't. Wha-wha-what's happening! Oh! Oh, dear! 
Oh!

The Ewoks fall back in terror from the floating throne. Now Threepio 
begins to spin as though he were on a revolving stool, with Threepio 
calling out in total panic at his situation.

THREEPIO
Put me down! He-e-elp! Master Luke! Artoo! Somebody, somebody, help! 
Master Luke, Artoo! Artoo, quickly! Do something, somebody! Oh! Ohhh!

Chief Chirpa yells orders to the cowering Ewoks. They rush up and 
release the bound prisoners. Luke and Han enfold Leia in a group 
embrace. Luke notices the spinning Threepio, with Artoo beeping up at 
him, and slowly lowers the golden droid and the throne to the ground. 
Logray orders the little droid cut down. Artoo crashes to the ground. 
When the Ewoks set him upright, the little droid is fighting mad. Artoo 
beeps a blue streak at the nearest Ewok, and begins pursuing him, 
finally getting close enough to zap him with an electric charge. The 
Ewok jumps two feet in the air and runs away, screaming. A small group 
of Ewoks surround the giant Wookiee, scratching their heads and 
marveling at his height.

THREEPIO
Oh, oh, oh, oh! Thank goodness.

LUKE
Thanks, Threepio.

THREEPIO	 (still shaken)
I...I never knew I had it in me.

75   INT CHIEF'S HUT - COUNCIL OF ELDERS

A glowing fire dances in the center of the spartan, low-ceilinged room, 
creating a kaleidoscope of shadows on the walls. Along one side, a 
group of ten Ewok elders flank Chief Chirpa, who sits on his throne. 
The Rebels sit along the walls of the hut, with Threepio between the 
two groups and Wicket and Teebo off to one side.

Threepio is in the midst of a long, animated speech in the Ewok's 
squeaky native tongue. The Ewoks listen carefully and occasionally 
murmur comments to each other. Threepio points several times at the 
Rebel group and pantomimes a short history of the Galactic Civil War, 
mimicking the explosion and rocket sounds, imitating Imperial walkers. 
Throughout the long account, certain familiar names are distinguishable 
in English: Princess Leia, Artoo, Darth Vader, Death Star, Jedi, Obi-
Wan Kenobi. Artoo begins beeping excitedly at Threepio.

THREEPIO
Yes, Artoo. I was just coming to that.

Threepio continues with: Millennium Falcon, Cloud City, Vader, Han 
Solo, carbonite, Sarlacc, bringing the history up to the present time.

At the end of it, the Chief, Logray, and the elders confer, then nod in 
agreement. The Chief stands and makes a pronouncement.

The drums begin to sound, and all the Ewoks stand with a great cheer 
and screeches.

HAN
What's going on?

LEIA
I don't know.

Luke has been sharing the joy with smiling visage, but now something 
passes like a dark cloud through his consciousness. The others do not 
notice.

THREEPIO
Wonderful! We are now a part of the tribe.

Several of the little teddy bears run up and hug the Rebels.

HAN
Just what I always wanted.

Chewbacca is being enthusiastically embraced by an Ewok, while Wicket 
clings to Han's leg.

HAN	 (chuckles)
Well, short help is better than no help at all, Chewie. 
(to Wicket) 
Thank you. Okay.

THREEPIO
He says the scouts are going to show us the quickest way to the shield 
generator.

Chewie barks. Luke has drifted to the back of the hut. Now he wanders 
outside into the moonlight. Leia notices and follows.

HAN
Good. How far is it? Ask him. We need some fresh supplies, too. And try 
and get our weapons back.

Han pulls Threepio back as he keeps trying to translate.

HAN	 (cont)
And hurry up, will ya? I haven't got all day.

76   EXT EWOK VILLAGE - NIGHT

The walkway is deserted now. The windows of the little huts glow and 
flicker from the fires inside. The sounds of the forest fill the soft 
night air. Luke has wandered away from the Chief's hut and stands 
staring up at the Death Star. Leia finds him like that.

LEIA
Luke, what's wrong?

Luke turns and looks at her a long moment.

LUKE
Leia... do you remember your mother? Your real mother?

LEIA
Just a little bit. She died when I was very young.

LUKE
What do you remember?

LEIA
Just...images, really. Feelings.

LUKE
Tell me.

LEIA
(a little surprised at his insistence)
She was very beautiful. Kind, but...sad.
(looks up)
Why are you asking me all this?

He looks away.

LUKE
I have no memory of my mother. I never knew her.

LEIA
Luke, tell me. What's troubling you?

LUKE
Vader is here...now, on this moon.

LEIA	 (alarmed)
How do you know?

LUKE
I felt his presence. He's come for me. He can feel when I'm near. 
That's why I have to go.
(facing her)
As long as I stay, I'm endangering the group and our mission here.
(beat)
I have to face him.

Leia is distraught, confused.

LEIA
Why?

Luke moves close and his manner is gentle. And very calm.

LUKE
He's my father.

LEIA
Your father?

LUKE
There's more. It won't be easy for you to hear it, but you must. If I 
don't make it back, you're the only hope for the Alliance.

Leia is very disturbed by this. She moves away, as if to deny it.

LEIA
Luke, don't talk that way. You have a power I--I don't understand and 
could never have.

LUKE
You're wrong, Leia. You have that power too. In time you'll learn to 
use it as I have. The Force is strong in my family. My father has 
it...I have it...and...my sister has it.

Leia stares into his eyes. What she sees there frightens her. But she 
doesn't draw away. She begins to understand.

LUKE
Yes. It's you Leia.

LEIA
I know. Somehow...I've always known.

LUKE
Then you know why I have to face him.

LEIA
No! Luke, run away, far away. If he can feel your presence, then leave 
this place. I wish I could go with you.

LUKE
No, you don't. You've always been strong.

LEIA
But, why must you confront him?

LUKE
Because...there is good in him. I've felt it. He won't turn me over to 
the Emperor. I can save him. I can turn him back to the good side. I 
have to try.

They hold each other close and look at each other, brother and sister.

Leia holds back her tears as Luke slowly lets her go and moves away. He 
disappears onto the walkway that leads out of the village. Leia, bathed 
in moonlight, watches him go as Han comes out of the Chief's hut and 
comes over to her. Leia is crying, her body trembling. He realizes only 
now that she is crying.

HAN
Hey, what's goin' on?

Leia attempts to stifle her sobs and wipes her eyes.

LEIA
Nothing. I - just want to be alone for a little while.

HAN	 (angry)
Nothing?  Come on, tell me.  What's goin' on?

She looks up at him, struggling to control herself.

LEIA
I...I can't tell you.

HAN	 (loses his temper)
Did you tell Luke? Is that who you could tell?

LEIA
I...

HAN
Ahhh...

He starts to walk away, exasperated, then stops and walks back to her.

HAN
I'm sorry.

LEIA
Hold me.

Han gathers her tightly in his protective embrace.

77   EXT FOREST - IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM

An Imperial shuttle floats down from the Death Star and lands 
gracefully on the huge platform.

Now, an Imperial walker approaches the platform from the darkness of 
the forest. The whole outpost - platform, walkers, military - looks 
particularly offensive in the midst of this verdant beauty.

78   EXT IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM - LOWER DECK

Darth Vader walks down the ramp of the shuttle onto the platform, into 
an elevator, and appears on a ramp on a lower level. He walks toward 
another ramp exit and is met by two troopers and a commander with Luke, 
in binders, at their center. The young Jedi gazes at Vader with 
complete calm.

COMMANDER
This is a Rebel that surrendered to us. Although he denies it, I 
believe there may be more of them, and I request permission to conduct 
a further search of the area.

The commander extends his hand, revealing Luke's lightsaber.

COMMANDER
He was armed only with this.

Vader looks at Luke, turns away and faces the commander, taking the 
lightsaber from the commander's hand.

VADER
Good work, Commander. Leave us. Conduct your search and bring his 
companions to me.

COMMANDER
Yes, my Lord.

The officer and troops withdraw. Vader and Luke are left standing alone 
in the oddly tranquil beauty of the place. The sounds of the forest 
filter in upon them.

VADER
The Emperor has been expecting you.

LUKE
I know, father.

VADER
So, you have accepted the truth.

LURE
I've accepted the truth that you were once Anakin Skywalker, my father.

VADER	 (turning to face him)
That name no longer has any meaning for me.

LUKE
It is the name of your true self. You've only forgotten. I know there 
is good in you. The Emperor hasn't driven it from you fully. That is 
why you couldn't destroy me. That's why you won't bring me to your 
Emperor now.

Vader looks down from Luke to the lightsaber in his own black- gloved 
hand. He seems to ponder Luke's words.

VADER	 (indicating lightsaber)
I see you have constructed a new lightsaber.

Vader ignites the lightsaber and holds it to examine its humming, 
brilliant blade.

VADER
Your skills are complete. Indeed, you are powerful, as the Emperor has 
foreseen.

They stand for a moment, the Vader extinguishes the lightsaber.

LUKE
Come with me.

VADER
Obi-Wan once thought as you do.

Luke steps close to Vader, then stops. Vader is still.

VADER
You don't know the power of the dark side. I must obey my master.

LUKE
I will not turn...and you'll be forced to kill me.

VADER
If that is your destiny.

LUKE
Search your feelings, father. You can't do this. I feel the conflict 
within you. Let go
of your hate.

VADER
It is too late for me, son. The Emperor will show you the true nature 
of the Force. He is
your master now.

Vader signals to some distant stormtroopers. He and Luke stand staring 
at one another for a long moment.

LUKE
Then my father is truly dead.

79   EXT ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING SHIELD GENERATOR

Han, Leia, Chewbacca, the droids, Wicket, and another Ewok scout, 
PAPLOO, hide on a ridge overlooking the massive Imperial shield 
generator. At the base of the generator is an Imperial landing 
platform. Leia studies the installation.

LEIA
The main entrance to the control bunker's on the far side of that 
landing platform. This
isn't gonna be easy.

HAN
Hey, don't worry. Chewie and me got into a lot of places more heavily 
guarded than this.

Wicket and Paploo are chattering away in Ewok language. They speak to 
Threepio.

LEIA
What's he saying?

THREEPIO
He says there's a secret entrance on the other side of the ridge.

80   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

The vast fleet hangs in space near a blue planet. A giant Rebel Star 
Cruiser is up at the front, but now the Millennium Flacon roars up to a 
spot ahead of it, tiny in comparison.

81   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando is in the pilot seat. His alien copilot, NIEN NUNB, takes some 
getting used to in the familiar environs of the Falcon's cockpit. Lando 
speaks into his comlink.

LANDO
Admiral, we're in position. All fighters accounted for.

ACKBAR 	(VO)
Proceed with the countdown. All groups assume attack coordinates.

Lando turns to his weird copilot.

LANDO
Don't worry, my friends are down there. They'll have that shield down 
on time...
(to himself) 
or this'll be the shortest offensive of all time.

The copilot flips some switches and grunts an alien comment.

ACKBAR	 (VO)
All craft, prepare to jump to hyperspace on my mark.

LANDO
All right. Stand by.

He pulls a lever, and the stars outside begin to streak.

82   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

We are treated to an awesome sight: first the Millennium Falcon, then 
Ackbar's Star Cruiser, then, in large segments, the huge fleet ROARS 
INTO HYPERSPACE. And disappears.

83   EXT ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING CONTROL BUNKER

Han, Leia, Chewie, the droids, and their two Ewok guides, Wicket and 
Paploo, have reunited with the Rebel strike squad. The entire group is 
spread through the thick undergrowth. Below them is the BUNKER that 
leads into the generator. Four Imperial scouts, their speeder bikes 
parked nearby, keep watch over the bunker entrance. Chewie growls an 
observation, and Paploo chatters away to Han in Ewok language.

HAN
Back door, huh? Good idea.

Wicket and Paploo continue their Ewok conversation.

HAN	 (cont)
It's only a few guards. This shouldn't be too much trouble.

LEIA
Well, it only takes one to sound the alarm.

HAN	 (with self-confident grin)
Then we'll do it real quiet-like.

Threepio explains what is going on to Wicket and Paploo. The Ewoks 
chatter a moment between themselves. Then Paploo jumps up and scampers 
into the underbrush.

Threepio asks Wicket where Paploo went and is given a short reply.

THREEPIO
Oh! Oh, my. Uh, Princess Leia!

LEIA
Quiet.

THREEPIO
I'm afraid our furry companion has gone and done something rather rash.

LEIA
Oh, no.

84   EXT BUNKER - ENTRANCE

Paploo has slipped out of the undergrowth near where the Imperial 
scouts are lounging. He silently swings his furry ball of a body onto 
one of the scout's speeder bikes and begins flipping switches at 
random. Suddenly, the bike's engine fires up with a tremendous ROAR. 
Paploo grins and continues flipping switches. The scouts leap up in 
surprise.

85   EXT RIDGE

Han, Leia and company watch in distress. Chewie barks.

HAN 	(sighs)
There goes our surprise attack.

86   EXT BUNKER

The Imperial scouts race toward Paploo just as his speeder zooms into 
motion. Paploo hangs on by his paws and shoots away into the forest.

SCOUT
Look! Over there! Stop him!

Three of the Imperial scouts jump on their rocket bikes and speed away 
in pursuit. The fourth watches them go from his post at the door.

87   EXT RIDGE

Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange delighted looks.

HAN
Not bad for a little furball. There's only one left. You stay here. 
We'll take care of this.

Han and the Wookiee nod at each other and slip down toward the bunker. 
Threepio moves to stand next to Wicket and Artoo.

THREEPIO
I have decided that we shall stay here.

88   EXT FOREST

Paploo sails through the trees, more lucky than in control. It's scary, 
but he loves it. When the Imperial scouts pull within sight behind him 
and begin firing laser bolts, he decides he's had enough. As he rounds 
a tree, out of their sight, Paploo grabs a vine and swings up into the 
trees. A moment later, the scouts tear under him in pursuit of the 
still-flying, unoccupied bike.

89   EXT BUNKER

Han sneaks up behind the remaining Imperial scout, taps him on the 
shoulder and lets the scout chase him behind the bunker into the arms 
of the waiting Rebel strike team. Han returns to the front, and taps 
out a pattern on the bunker door's control panel. Everyone stands out 
of sight, police-style, as the door opens. Han and Leia peek inside. No 
sign of life. The group enters the bunker silently, leaving one lookout 
behind.

90   INT DEATH STAR - EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

The elevator opens. Vader and Luke enter the room alone. They walk 
across the dark space to stand before the throne, father and son side 
by side beneath the gaze of the Emperor. Vader bows to his Master.

EMPEROR
Welcome, young Skywalker. I have been expecting you.

Luke peers at the hooded figure defiantly. The Emperor then looks down 
at Luke's binders.

EMPEROR
You no longer need those.

The Emperor motions ever so slightly with his finger and Luke's binders 
fall away, clattering to the floor. Luke looks down at his own hands, 
free now to reach out and grab the Emperor's neck. He does nothing.

EMPEROR
Guards, leave us.

The red-cloaked guards turn and disappear behind the elevator.

EMPEROR	 (to Luke)
I'm looking forward to completing your training. In time you will call 
me Master.

LUKE
You're gravely mistaken. You won't convert me as you did my father.

The Emperor gets down from his throne and walks up very close to Luke. 
The Emperor looks into his eyes and, for the first time, Luke can 
perceive the evil visage within the hood.

EMPEROR
Oh, no, my young Jedi. You will find that it is you who are 
mistaken...about a great many things.

VADER
His lightsaber.

Vader extends a gloved hand toward the Emperor, revealing Luke's 
lightsaber. The Emperor takes it.

EMPEROR
Ah, yes, a Jedi's weapon. Much like your father's. By now you must know 
your father can never be turned from the dark side. So will it be with 
you.

LUKE
You're wrong. Soon I'll be dead...and you with me.

The Emperor laughs.

EMPEROR
Perhaps you refer to the imminent attack of your Rebel fleet.

Luke looks up sharply.

EMPEROR
Yes...I assure you we are quite safe from your friends here.

Vader looks at Luke.

LUKE
Your overconfidence is your weakness.

EMPEROR
Your faith in your friends is yours.

VADER
It is pointless to resist, my son.

The Emperor turns to face Luke.

EMPEROR	 (angry)
Everything that has transpired has done so according to my design. 
(indicates Endor)
Your friends up there on the Sanctuary Moon...

Luke reacts. The Emperor notes it.

EMPEROR	 (cont)
...are walking into a trap. As is your Rebel fleet! It was I who 
allowed the Alliance to know the location of the shield generator. It 
is quite safe from your pitiful little band. An entire legion of my 
best troops awaits them.

Luke's look darts from the Emperor to Vader and, finally, to the sword 
in the Emperor's hand.

EMPEROR
Oh...I'm afraid the deflector shield will be quite operational when 
your friends arrive.

91   INT BUNKER - MAIN CONTROL ROOM

Han, Leia, Chewie, and the Rebel strike team storm through a door and 
enter the main control room, taking all of the personnel prisoner.

HAN
All right! Up! Move! Come on! Quickly! Quickly, Chewie.

The Rebel troops herd the generator controllers away from their panels. 
Leia glances at one of the screens on the control panel.

LEIA
Han! Hurry! The fleet will be here any moment.

HAN
Charges!  Come on, come on!

Outside, Threepio watches nervously in the bushes as several more 
controllers and stormtroopers run into the bunker, leaving guards at 
the door.

THREEPIO	 (to Wicket)
Oh, my! They'll be captured!

Wicket chatters in Ewok language, and then takes off full steam into 
the forest.

THREEPIO
Wa-wait! Wait, come back! Artoo, stay with me.

Inside the bunker, Han looks up from setting charges as an Imperial 
commander enters.

COMMANDER
Freeze! You Rebel scum.

Han and Leia spin, to find dozens of Imperial weapons trained on them 
and their cohorts. A poised force of Imperial troops surround them. 
Even more pour into the room, roughly disarming the Rebel contingent. 
Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange looks. They're helpless.

92   EXT SPACE - ENDOR, DEATH STAR, REBEL FLEET

The Death Star and its Sanctuary Moon hang distant in space as the 
Rebel fleet comes out of hyperspace with an awesome roar. The 
Millennium Falcon and several Rebel fighters are at the front as the 
space armada bears down on its target.

93   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando flips switches, checks his screen, and speaks into the radio.

LANDO
All wings report in.

WEDGE
Red Leader standing by.

GRAY LEADER
Gray Leader standing by.

GREEN LEADER
Green Leader standing by.

WEDGE
Lock S-foils in attack positions.

94   INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

From the bridge of the Rebel Headquarters Frigate, Admiral Ackbar 
watches the fighters massing outside his viewscreen.

ACKBAR
May the Force be with us.

95   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando looks worriedly at his alien copilot, Nien Nunb, who points to 
the control panel and talks to Lando.

LANDO
We've got to be able to get some kind of a reading on that shield, up 
or down. Well, how
could they be jamming us if they don't know if we're coming.

Lando shoots a concerned look out at the approaching Death Star as the 
implications of what he's just said sink in. He hits a switch on his 
comlink.

LANDO
Break off the attack! The shield is still up.

RED LEADER	 (VO)
I get no reading. Are you sure?

LANDO
Pull up! All craft pull up!

The Falcon turns hard to the left. Out the window the stars and the 
Death Star move off right.

96   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR SHIELD

The Falcon and the fighters of Red Squad veer off desperately to avoid 
the unseen wall.

97   INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Alarms are screaming and lights flashing as the huge ship changes 
course abruptly. Other ships in the fleet shoot by outside as the 
armada tries to halt its forward momentum.

ACKBAR
Take evasive action! Green Group, stick close to holding sector MV-7.

A Mon Calamari controller turns away from his screen and calls out to 
Ackbar, quite excited. The Admiral rushes over to the controller.

CONTROLLER
Admiral, we have enemy ships in sector 47.

On the screen can be seen the moon, Death Star, and the massive 
Imperial fleet. Ackbar moves to the comlink.

ACKBAR
It's a trap!

LANDO	 (over comlink)
Fighters coming in.

There is much excitement on the bridge as the attack begins.

The Millennium Falcon and several squads of Rebel fighters head into an 
armada of TIE fighters. The sky explodes as a fierce dogfight ensues in 
and around the giant Rebel cruisers.

REBEL PILOT
There's too many of them!

LANDO
Accelerate to attack speed! Draw their fire away from the cruisers.

WEDGE
Copy, Gold Leader.

The battle continues around the giant cruisers.

98   INT DEATH STAR - EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

Through the round window behind the Emperor's throne can be seen the 
distant flashes of the space battle in progress.

EMPEROR
Come, boy. See for yourself.

The Emperor is sitting in his throne, with Vader standing at his side. 
Luke moves to look through a small section of the window.

EMPEROR
From here you will witness the final destruction of the Alliance, and 
the end of your insignificant Rebellion.

Luke is in torment. He glances at his lightsaber sitting on the armrest 
of the throne. The Emperor watches him and smiles, touches the 
lightsaber.

EMPEROR
You want this, don't you? The hate is swelling in you now. Take your 
Jedi weapon. Use it. I am unarmed. Strike me down with it. Give in to 
your anger. With each passing moment, you make yourself more my 
servant.

Vader watches Luke in his agony.

LUKE
No!

EMPEROR
It is unavoidable. It is your destiny. You, like your father, are now 
mine!

99   EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han, Leia, Chewie, and the rest of the strike team are led out of the 
bunker by their captors. The surrounding area, deserted before, is now 
crowded with two-legged Imperial walkers and hundreds of Imperial 
troops. The situation looks hopeless.

STORMTROOPER
All right, move it! I said move it! Go on!

From the undergrowth beyond the clearing comes a wild series of beeps 
and whistles. 
And --

THREEPIO
Hello! I say, over there! Were you looking for me?

BUNKER COMMANDER
Bring those two down here!

STORMTROOPER
Let's go!

Artoo and Threepio are standing near one of the big trees. As six 
Imperial stormtroopers rush over to take them captive, the two droids 
duck out of sight behind the tree.

THREEPIO
Well, they're on their way. Artoo, are you sure this was a good idea?

STORMTROOPER
Freeze! Don't move!

THREEPIO
We surrender.

The stormtroopers come around the tree and find the two droids waiting 
quietly to be taken. As the Imperial troops move to do that, however, a 
band of Ewoks drops down from above and overpowers them.

THREEPIO
Ohhh! Stand back, Artoo.

In a nearby tree, an Ewok raises a horn to his lips and sounds the EWOK 
ATTACK CALL. All hell breaks loose as hundreds of Ewoks throw their 
fuzzy bodies into the fray against the assembled stormtroopers and 
their awesome two-legged walkers. Biker scouts dart about blasting 
Ewoks, only to be crushed by a volley of rocks tossed by Ewoks from the 
trees above.

In the confusion of the battle, Han and Leia break away and dive for 
the cover of the bunker door as explosions erupt around them. Han goes 
to the bunker door control panel.

LEIA
The code's changed. We need Artoo!

HAN
Here's the terminal.

LEIA	 (into comlink)
Artoo, where are you? We need you at the bunker right away.

Artoo and Threepio are hiding behind a log as the battle ragesaround 
them. Suddenly the stubby little astrodroid lets out a series of 
whistles and shoots off across the battlefield. Threepio, panicked, 
runs after him.

THREEPIO
Going? What do you mean, you're going. But-- but going where, Artoo? 
No, what! Artoo! Oh, this is no time for heroics. Come back!

Biker scouts race around and over the two droids, blasting away at the 
little Ewoks as the furries scurry for cover.

A group of Ewoks have moved a primitive catapult into position. They 
fire off a large boulder that hits one of the walkers. The walker turns 
and heads for the catapult, blasting away with both guns. The Ewoks 
abandon their weapons and flee in all directions. Just as the walker 
moves in to stomp the catapult, Ewoks drop vines restraining two huge 
logs that swing down and smash thewalker's head flat.

A line of Ewoks hang desperately to a vine that is hooked to a walker's 
foot. As the walker moves along, the fuzzy creatures are dragged 
behind.

Two speeder bikes chase Ewoks through the underbrush. As the scouts 
round a tree, they are knocked off their bikes by a vinetied between 
two trees.

100  EXT SPACE

The Falcon and other Rebel fighters are engaged in a ferocious combat 
with Imperial TIE fighters, the battle raging around thecruisers of the 
Rebel armada.

101  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT
Lando is in radio communication with the pilots of the other Rebel 
squads.

LANDO
Watch yourself, Wedge! Three from above!

WEDGE
Red Three, Red Two, pull in!

RED TWO
Got it!

RED THREE
Three of them coming in, twenty degrees!

WEDGE
Cut to the left! I'll take the leader! They're heading for the medical 
frigate.

Lando steers the Falcon through a complete flip, as his crew fires at 
the TIEs from the belly guns.

NAVIGATOR
Pressure's steady.

The copilot Nien Nunb chatters an observation.

LANDO
Only the fighters are attacking.  I wonder what those Star Destroyers 
are waiting for.

102  EXT SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET  

The giant Imperial Star Destroyer waits silently some distance from the 
battle. The Emperor's huge Super Star Destroyer rests in the middle of 
the fleet.

103  INT SUPER STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and two fleet commanders watch the battle at the huge 
window of the Super Star Destroyer bridge.

COMMANDER
We're in attack position now, sir.

PIETT
Hold here.

COMMANDER
We're not going to attack?

PIETT
I have my orders from the Emperor himself. He has something special 
planned for them. We only need to keep them from escaping.

104  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

The Emperor, Vader, and a horrified Luke watch the aerial battle 
fireworks out the window and on the viewscreens. Another Rebel ship 
explodes against the protective shield.

EMPEROR
As you can see, my young apprentice, your friends have failed. Now 
witness the firepower of this fully armed and operational battle 
station.
(into comlink)
Fire at will, Commander.

Luke, in shock, looks out across the surface of the Death Star to the 
Rebel fleet beyond.

105  INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Controllers pull back on several switches. Commander Jerjerrod stands 
over them.

JERJERROD
Fire!

106  INT DEATH STAR - BLAST CHAMBER

A button is pressed, which switches on a panel of lights. A hooded 
Imperial soldier reaches overhead and pulls a lever. A huge beam of 
light emanates from a long shaft. Two stormtroopers stand to one side 
at a control panel.

107  EXT DEATH STAR

The giant laser dish on the completed half of the Death Star begins to 
glow; Then a powerful beams shoots out toward the aerial battle.

108  EXT SPACE - AIR BATTLE

The air is thick with giant ships. In among them, Rebel X-wings 
dogfight with Imperial TIE fighters. Now an enormous Rebel cruiser is 
hit by the Death Star beam and is blown to dust.

The Millennium Falcon roars over CAMERA, followed closely byseveral TIE 
fighters.

109  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The ship is buffeted by the tremendous explosion of the Rebel cruiser. 
Lando and his copilot are stunned by the sight of the Death Star 
firepower.

LANDO
That blast came from the Death Star! That thing's operational! 
(into comlink)
Home One, this is Gold Leader.

110  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar stands amid the confusion on the wide bridge and speaks into the 
comlink.

ACKBAR
We saw it. All craft prepare to retreat.

LANDO
You won't get another chance at this, Admiral.

ACKBAR
We have no choice, General Calrissian. Our cruisers can't repel 
firepower of that magnitude.

LANDO
Han will have that shield down. We've got to give him more time.

111  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Artoo and Threepio make it to the door, as Han and Leia provide cover 
fire.

THREEPIO
We're coming!

HAN
Come on! Come on!

THREEPIO
Oh, Artoo, hurry!

The little droid moves to the terminal and plugs in his computer arm. A 
large explosion hits near Artoo, knocking him head over heels, finally 
landing on his feet. The stubby astrodroid's head is spinning and 
smoldering. Suddenly there is a loud SPROOING and Han and Leia turn 
around to see Artoo with all his compartment doors open, and all of his 
appendages sticking out; water and smoke spurt out of the nozzles in 
his body. Han rushes to the terminal, as Threepio rushes to his wounded 
companion.

THREEPIO
My goodness! Artoo, why did you have to be so brave?

HAN
Well, I suppose I could hotwire this thing.

LEIA
I'll cover you.

Ewoks in handmade, primitive hanggliders drop rocks onto the 
stormtroopers, divebombing their deadly adversaries.  One is hit in the 
wing with laser fire and crashes. A walker lumbers forward, shooting 
laser blasts at frantic Ewoks running in all directions.  Two Ewoks are 
struck down by laser blasts.  One tries to awaken his friend, then 
realizes that he is dead.

112  EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR

The Rebel fleet continues to be picked off, from one side by the Death 
Star's deadly beam, from the other by the rampaging Imperial Star 
Destroyers.

113  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando steers the Falcon wildly through an obstacle course of floating 
giants. He's been yelling into the comlink.

LANDO	 (desperately)
Yes! I said closer! Move as close as you can and engage those Star 
Destroyers at point-
blank range.

ACKBAR
At that close range, we won't last long against those Star Destroyers.

LANDO
We'll last longer then we will against that Death Star...and we might 
just take a few of
them with us.

The Rebel cruisers move very close to the Imperial Star Destroyers and 
begin to blast away at point-blank range. Tiny fighters race across the 
giant surfaces, against a backdrop of laser fire.

The control tower of a Star Destroyer is under attack.

REBEL PILOT
She's gonna blow!

Y-WING PILOT
I'm hit!

The damaged Y-wing plummets toward the Star Destroyer, and crashes into 
the control tower, exploding.

114  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Out of the window and on the view screens, the Rebel fleet is being 
decimated in blinding explosions of light and debris. But in here there 
is no sound of battle. The Emperor turns to Luke.

EMPEROR
Your fleet has lost. And your friends on the Endor moon will not 
survive. There is no escape, my young apprentice. The Alliance will 
die...as will your friends.

Luke's eyes are full of rage. Vader watches him.

EMPEROR
Good. I can feel your anger. I am defenseless.  Take your weapon! 
Strike me down with all your hatred, and your journey towards the dark 
side will be complete.

Luke can resist no longer. The lightsaber flies into his hand. He 
ignites it in an instant and swings at the Emperor. Vader's lightsaber 
flashes into view, blocking Luke's blow before it can reach the 
Emperor. The two blades spark at contact. Luke turns to fight his 
father.

115  EXT FOREST

The battle rages on. Stormtroopers fire on Ewoks with sophisticated 
weapons while their furry little adversaries sneak up behind the 
Imperial troopers and bash them over the head with large clubs.

A walker marches through the undergrowth blasting Ewoks as it goes. An 
Ewok warrior gives the signal, and a pile of logs is cut loose. The 
logs tumble under the walker's feet, causing it to slip and slide until 
it finally topples over with a great crash.

A scout bike races past and is lassoed with a heavy vine. The other end 
of the vine is tied to a tree, and the bike swings around in ever-
tightening circles until it runs out of rope and
crashes into the trees with a huge explosion.

Chewie swings on a vine to the roof of one of the walkers. Two Ewoks 
cling to him. They land with a thud on the top of the lurching machine, 
then hang on for dear life. One of the Ewoks peeks through the window.

WALKER PILOT #1
Look!

PILOT #2
Get him off of there!

The walker pilot opens the hatch to see what's going on. He is yanked 
out and tossed overboard before he can scream. The two Ewoks jump into 
the cockpit and knock the second pilot unconscious. The Ewoks are 
thrown violently as the mighty machine careens out of control. Outside, 
Chewie is almost knocked overboard; he sticks his head into the hatch 
with a series of angry barks. The Ewoks are too busy and frightened to 
listen to the Wookiee's complaint. Chewie slips inside the walker.

Chewbacca's walker moves through the forest, firing laser blasts at 
unsuspecting stormtroopers, and destroying other Imperial walkers. The 
Ewoks shout and cheer as the giant machine helps turn the tide of the 
battle in their favor.

116  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han works furiously at the control panel; wires spark as he attempts to 
hotwire the door. He motions to Leia, who is blasting away at some 
stormtroopers.

HAN
I think I got it. I got it!

The three wires spark as the connection is made. With a LOUD WHOOSH, a 
second blast door crashes down in front of the first.

Han frowns and turns back to the wires again. Leia exchanges shots with 
stormtroopers in the bushes, then suddenly cries out in pain, her 
shoulder hit by a laser blast.

THREEPIO
Oh, Princess Leia, are you all right?

HAN
Let's see.

LEIA
It's not bad.

STORMTROOPER	 (OS)
Freeze!

They freeze.

THREEPIO
Oh, dear.

STORMTROOPER
Don't move!

Leia holds her laser gun ready, behind Han, out of view of the two 
stormtroopers moving toward them. Han and Leia's eyes lock; the moment 
seems suspended in time.

HAN
I love you.

Another shared look between them, as she smiles up at Han.

LEIA
I know.

STORMTROOPER
Hands up! Stand up!

Han stands up slowly and turns, revealing the gun in Leia's hand. She 
disposes of the stormtroopers in a flash. As Han turns back toward 
Leia, he looks up to see a giant walker approach and stand before him, 
its deadly weapons aimed right at him.

HAN	 (to Leia)
Stay back.

The hatch on top of the walker opens and Chewie sticks his head out and 
barks triumphantly.

HAN
Chewie!  Get down here!  She's wounded!  No, wait....  I got an idea.

117  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke and Vader are engaged in a man-to-man duel of lightsabers even 
more vicious then the battle on Bespin. But the young Jedi has grown 
stronger in the interim, and now the advantage shifts to him. Vader is 
forced back, losing his balance, and is knocked down the stairs. Luke 
stands at the top of the stairs, ready to attack.

EMPEROR (laughing)
Good.  Use your aggressive feelings, boy!  Let the hate flow through 
you.

Luke looks momentarily toward the Emperor, then back to Vader, and 
realizes he is using the dark side. He steps back, turns off his 
lightsaber, and relaxes, driving the hate from his being.

VADER
Obi-Wan has taught you well.

LUKE
I will not fight you, father.

Vader walks back up the stairs to Luke.

VADER
You are unwise to lower your defenses.

Vader attacks, forcing Luke on the defensive. The young Jedi leaps in 
an amazing reverse flip up to the safety of the catwalk overhead. Vader 
stands below him.

LUKE
Your thoughts betray you, father. I feel the good in you...the 
conflict.

VADER
There is no conflict.

LUKE
You couldn't bring yourself to kill me before, and I don't believe 
you'll destroy me
now.

VADER
You underestimate the power of the dark side. If you will not fight, 
then you will meet
your destiny.

Vader throws the laser sword and it cuts through the supports holding 
the catwalk, then returns to Vader's hand. Luke tumbles to the ground 
in a shower of sparks and rolls out of sight under the Emperor's 
platform. Vader moves to find him.

EMPEROR	 (laughs)
Good.  Good.

118  EXT SPACE - AIR BATTLE

The two armadas, like their sea-bound ancestors, blast away at each 
other in individual point-blank confrontations. A Star Destroyer 
explodes. The Rebel victor limps away, its back half alive with a 
series of minor explosions. The Rebel cruiser manages to move in next 
to a second Star Destroyer before it explodes completely, taking the 
Imperial Star Destroyer with it. The Falcon and several fighters attack 
one of the larger Imperial ships.

LANDO
Watch out. Squad at .06.

REBEL PILOT
I'm on it, Gold Leader.

WEDGE
Good shot, Red Two.

LANDO
Now...come on, Han, old buddy. Don't let me down.

119  INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM

Controllers watch the main viewscreen on which a vague figure of an 
Imperial walker pilot can be seen. There is a great deal of static and 
interference.

HAN/PILOT	 (VO)
It's over, Commander. The Rebels have been routed. They're fleeing into 
the woods. We
need reinforcements to continue the pursuit.

The controllers cheer.

CONTROL ROOM COMMANDER
Send three squads to help. Open the back door.

SECOND COMMANDER
Yes, sir.

120  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

As the door to the bunker opens and the Imperial troops rush out, 
they're surprised to find themselves surrounded by Rebels, their 
weapons pointed at them. Ewoks holding bows and arrows appear on the 
roof of the bunker. The Imperial troops throw down their guns
as Han and Chewie rush inside the bunker with explosive charges.

121  INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM

Han, Chewie, and several troops rush into the control room and plant 
explosive charges on the control panels and rush out.

HAN
Throw me another charge.

122  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Vader stalks the low-ceilinged area on the level below the throne, 
searching for Luke in the semi-darkness, his lightsaber held ready.

VADER
You cannot hide forever, Luke.

LUKE
I will not fight you.

VADER
Give yourself to the dark side. It is the only way you can save your 
friends. Yes, your
thoughts betray you. Your feelings for them are strong. Especially 
for...

Vader stops and senses something. Luke shuts his eyes tightly, in 
anguish.

VADER
Sister! So...you have a twin sister. Your feelings have now betrayed 
her, too. Obi-Wan
was wise to hide her from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will 
not turn to the dark
side, then perhaps she will.

LUKE
Never-r-r!

Luke ignites his lightsaber and screams in anger, rushing at hisfather 
with a frenzy we have not seen before. Sparks fly as Luke and Vader 
fight in the cramped area. Luke's hatred forces Vader to retreat out of 
the low area and across a bridge overlooking a vast elevator shaft. 
Each stroke of Luke's sword drives his father further toward defeat.

The Dark Lord is knocked to his knees, and as he raises his sword to 
block another onslaught, Luke slashes Vader's right hand off at the 
wrist, causing metal and electronic parts to fly from the mechanical 
stump. Vader's sword clatters uselessly away, over the
edge of the platform and into the bottomless shaft below. Luke moves 
over Vader and holds the blade of his sword to the Dark Lord's throat. 
The Emperor watches with uncontrollable, pleased agitation.

EMPEROR
Good! Your hate has made you powerful. Now, fulfill your destiny and 
take your father's
place at my side!

Luke looks at his father's mechanical hand, then to his own mechanical, 
black-gloved hand, and realizes how much he is becoming like his 
father. He makes the decision for which he has spent a lifetime in 
preparation. Luke steps back and hurls his lightsaber away.

LUKE
Never! I'll never turn to the dark side. You've failed, Your Highness. 
I am a Jedi,
like my father before me.

The Emperor's glee turns to rage.

EMPEROR
So be it...Jedi.

123  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han and several of the fighters run out of the bunker and race across 
the clearing.

HAN
Move! Move!

A shock wave knocks them flat as the bunker explodes, followed by a 
spectacular display as the huge shield-generator radar dish explodes 
along with the bunker.

124  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar, sitting in his control chair, speaks into the radio.

ACKBAR
The shield is down! Commence attack on theDeath Star's main reactor.

LANDO
We're on our way. Red Group, Gold Group, all fighters follow me. 
(laughs)
Told you they'd do it!

The Falcon, followed by several smaller Rebel fighters, heads toward 
the unfinished superstructure of the Death Star.

125  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke stands still, as the Emperor reaches the bottom of thestairs. The 
Emperor's laughter has turned to anger. He raises his arms toward Luke.

EMPEROR
If you will not be turned, you will be destroyed.

Blinding bolts of energy, evil lightning, shoot from the Emperor's 
hands at Luke. Even in his surprise, the young Jedi tries to use the 
Force to deflect them. At first he is half successful, but after a 
moment the bolts of energy are coming with such speed and power the 
young Jedi shrinks before them, his knees buckling. The wounded Vader 
struggles to his feet, and moves to stand at his master's side.

EMPEROR
Young fool...only now, at the end, do you understand.

Luke is almost unconscious beneath the continuing assault of the 
Emperor's lightning. He clutches a canister to keep from falling into 
the bottomless shaft as the bolts tear through him.

EMPEROR
Your feeble skills are no match for the power of the dark side. You 
have paid the price for
your lack of vision.

Luke writhes on the floor in unbearable pain, reaching weakly up toward 
where Vader stands watching.

LUKE	 (groans)
Father, please. Help me.

Again Vader stands, watching Luke. He looks at his master, the Emperor, 
then back to Luke on the floor.

EMPEROR
Now, young Skywalker...you will die.

Although it would not have seemed possible, the outpouring of bolts 
from the Emperor's fingers actually increases in intensity, the sound 
screaming through the room. Luke's body writhes in pain.

Vader grabs the Emperor from behind, fighting for control of the robed 
figure despite the Dark Lord's weakened body and gravely weakened arm. 
The Emperor struggles in his embrace, his bolt-shooting hands now 
lifted high, away from Luke. Now the white lightning arcs back to 
strike at Vader. He stumbles with his load as the sparks rain off his 
helmet and flow down over his black cape. He holds his evil master high 
over his head and walks to the edge of the abyss at the central core of 
the throne room. With one final burst of his once awesome strength, 
Darth Vader hurls the Emperor's body into the bottomless shaft.

The Emperor's body spins helplessly into the void, arcing as it falls 
into the abyss. Finally, when the body is far down the shaft, it 
explodes, creating a rush of air through the room.Vader's cape is 
whipped by the wind and he staggers, and collapses toward the 
bottomless hole. Luke crawls to his father's side and pulls him away 
from the edge of the abyss to safety. Both the young Jedi and the giant 
warrior are too weak to move.

126  EXT/INT - SPACE BATTLE - FIGHTER AND DEATH STAR

Rebel fighters follow the Falcon across the surface of the Death Star 
to the unfinished portion, where they dive into the superstructure of 
the giant battle station, followed by many TIE fighters.

WEDGE
I'm going in.

LANDO
Here goes nothing.

Three X-wings lead the chase through the ever-narrowing shaft, followed 
by the Falcon and four other fighters, plus TIE fighters who 
continually fire at the Rebels. Lights reflect off the pilot's faces as 
they race through the dark shaft.

LANDO
Now lock onto the strongest power source. It should be the power 
generator.

WEDGE
Form up. And stay alert. We could run out of space real fast.

The fighters and the Falcon race through the tunnel, still pursued by 
the TIE fighters. One of the X-wings is hit from behind and explodes.

LANDO
Split up and head back to the surface. See if you can get a few of 
those TIE fighters to
follow you.

PILOT
Copy, Gold Leader.

The Rebel ships peel off pursued by three of the TIE's, while Lando and 
Wedge continue through the main tunnel. It narrows, and the Falcon 
scrapes the side dangerously. Two other TIE fighters continue to blast 
away at them.

LANDO
That was too close.

Nien Nunb agrees. The battle between the Rebel and Imperial fleet rages 
on. Several cruisers fire at the giant Super Star Destroyer.

127  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

ACKBAR
We've got to give those fighters more time. Concentrate all fire on 
that Super Star Destroyer.

X-wings pilots head across the surface of the huge battleship.

128  INT VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and a commander stand at the window, looking out to the 
battle. They look concerned.

CONTROLLER
Sir, we've lost our bridge deflector shield.

PIETT
Intensify the forward batteries. I don't want anything to get through.

The commander is looking out of the window where a damaged Rebel 
fighter is out of control and heading directly toward the bridge.

PIETT
Intensify forward firepower!

COMMANDER
It's too late!

The Rebel pilot screams as his ship hits the Star Destroyer, causing a 
huge explosion. The giant battle ship loses control, crashes into the 
Death Star, and explodes.

129  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

There is excitement on the bridge as the battle rages on all sides. 
They cheer as the giant Star Destroyer blows up.

130  INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

Chaos. For the first time, the Death Star is rocked by explosions as 
the Rebel fleet, no longer backed against a wall, zooms over, unloading 
a heavy barrage. Imperial troops run in all directions, confused and 
desperate to escape.

In the midst of this uproar, Luke is trying to carry the enormous 
deadweight of his father's weakening body toward an Imperial shuttle. 
Finally, Luke collapses from the strain. The explosions grow louder as 
Vader draws him closer.

VADER	 (a whisper)
Luke, help me take this mask off.

LURE
But you'll die.

VADER
Nothing can stop that now. Just for once... let me look on you with my 
own eyes.

Slowly, hesitantly, Luke removes the mask from his father's face. There 
beneath the scars is an elderly man. His eyes do not focus. But the 
dying man smiles at the sight before him.

ANAKIN	 (very weak)
Now...go, my son. Leave me.

LUKE
No. You're coming with me. I can't leave you here. I've got to save 
you.

ANAKIN
You already have, Luke. You were right about me. Tell your sister...you 
were right.

LUKE
Father...I won't leave you.

Darth Vader, Anakin Skywalker...Luke's father, dies.

A huge explosion rocks the docking bay. Slowly, Luke rises and, half 
carrying, half dragging the body of his father, stumbles toward a 
shuttle.

131  EXT DEATH STAR

The Millennium Falcon leads a swerving bomb run through the immense 
superstructure of the half-built Death Star. The Rebel Star Cruisers 
outside continually bombard the huge station. And each direct hit is 
answered by resonating, chain-reaction explosions within the station 
itself.

132  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT AND GUN PORTS

Lando's crew fires away at the pursuing TIE fighters as the dashing 
Baron of Bespin and his alien copilot home in on the main reactor 
shaft. It is awesome. A lone X-wing is just in front of the Falcon.

WEDGE
There it is!

LANDO
All right, Wedge. Go for the power regulator on the north tower.

WEDGE
Copy, Gold Leader. I'm already on my way out.

The X-wing heads for the top of the huge reactor and fires several 
proton torpedoes at the power regulator, causing a series of small 
explosions.

The Falcon heads for the main reactor, and when it is dangerously 
close, Lando fires the missiles, which shoot out of the Falcon with a 
powerful roar, and hit directly at the center of the main reactor.

He maneuvers the Falcon out of the winding superstructure just ahead of 
the continuing chain of explosions.

133  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar and other Mon Calamari lean on the railing of the bridge, 
watching the large screen showing the Death Star in the main briefing 
room.

ACKBAR
Move the fleet away from the Death Star.

134  EXT DEATH STAR

An Imperial shuttle, with Luke alone in the cockpit, rockets out of the 
main docking bay as that entire section of the Death Star is blown 
away.

Finally, just as it looks like the Falcon will not make it, Lando 
expertly pilots the craft out of the exploding superstructure and 
whizzes toward the Sanctuary Moon, only a moment before the Death Star 
supernovas into oblivion.

135  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando and Nien Nunb laugh and cheer in relief.

136  EXT ENDOR FOREST

Han and Leia, Chewie, the droids, the Rebel troops, and the Ewoks all 
look to the sky as the Death Star reveals itself in a final flash of 
self-destruction. They all cheer.

THREEPIO
They did it!

Han looks town from the sky to Leia, a look of concern on his face. 
Leia continues to look at the sky as though listening for a silent 
voice.

HAN
I'm sure Luke wasn't on that thing when it blew.

LEIA
He wasn't. I can feel it.

HAN
You love him, don't you?

Leia smiles, puzzled.

LEIA
Yes.

HAN
All right. I understand. Fine. When he comes back, I won't get in the 
way.

She realizes his misunderstanding.

LEIA
Oh. No, it's not like that at all. He's my brother.

Han is stunned by this news. She smiles, and they embrace.

137  EXT ENDOR FOREST - NIGHT

Luke sets a torch to the logs stacked under a funeral pyre where his 
father's body lies, again dressed in black mask and helmet. He stands, 
watching sadly, as the flames leap higher to consume Darth Vader -- 
Anakin Skywalker.

In the sky above, fireworks explode and Rebel fighters zoom above the 
forest.

138  EXT EWOK VILLAGE SQUARE - NIGHT

A huge bonfire is the centerpiece of a wild celebration. Rebels and 
Ewoks rejoice in the warm glow of firelight, drums beating, singing, 
dancing, and laughing in the communal language of victory and 
liberation.

Lando runs in and is enthusiastically hugged by Han and Chewie. Then, 
finally, Luke arrives and the friends rush to greet and embrace him. 
They stand close, this hardy group, taking comfort in each other's 
touch, together to the end.

Rebels and Ewoks join together in dancing and celebration. The original 
group of adventurers watch from the sidelines. Only Luke seems 
distracted, alone in their midsts, his thoughts elsewhere.

He looks off to the side and sees three shimmering, smiling figures at 
the edge of the shadows: Ben Kenobi, Yoda, and Anakin Skywalker.

FADE OUT

END CREDITS OVER STAR FIELD
