



                            ZOOTOPIA




                           Written by

                    Jared Bush & Phil Johnston




                                                                     Story by
                                                     Byron Howard, Rich Moore,
                                      Jared Bush, Jim Reardon, Josie Trinidad,
                                                Phil Johnston and Jennifer Lee



   IN BLACK --

   We hear the feral, primeval sounds of a jungle at night. A
   timpani bangs an ominous beat.

   FADE IN ON:


   A JUNGLE - NIGHT

   A BUNNY nervously walks through the dark, foreboding forest,
   frightened by every shadow and moving leaf.

                    YOUNG JUDY (V.O.)
          Fear. Treachery. Bloodlust!
          Thousands of years ago, these were
          the forces that ruled our world. A
          world where prey were scared of
          predators. And predators had an
          uncontrollable biological urge to
          maim and maul and...

   The timpani crescendos. A JAGUAR leaps out of the shadows,
   attacks the bunny, who screams--

                                                  CUT TO:


   INSIDE A BARN - A JUNGLE (SET) - NIGHT

   The action continues-- as imagined by an amateur stage
   production.

                    YOUNG JUDY
          Blood, blood, blood!

   Reams of red papier mâché entrails ooze from the bunny. And
   when those run out-- projectile ketchup.

   Reveal: These are ANIMAL KID ACTORS. The bunny, JUDY HOPPS,
   10, is our hero. And this is her play being staged. A banner
   reads: CARROT DAYS TALENT SHOW!

                       YOUNG JUDY (CONT'D)
          And death.

   The CROWD looks on, confused. The music goes discordant as
   BOBBY CATMULL, a bobcat, bangs a drum.

                    YOUNG JUDY (CONT'D)
          Back then, the world was divided in
          two. Vicious predator or Meek prey.
                                                           2.


TWO BOXES drop down, labeled VICIOUS PREDATOR and MEEK PREY.
The PREDATOR box lands on the jaguar. The MEEK PREY box lands
on Judy. Her entrails get stuck outside the box. She drags
them underneath with her.

                    YOUNG JUDY (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          But over time, we evolved, and
          moved beyond our primitive savage
          ways.

A YOUNG SHEEP wearing a white muumuu and a cardboard rainbow
on his head does an improvisational dance across the stage.
Judy and the jaguar burst out of their boxes, now wearing
white muumuus, too.

                    YOUNG JUDY (CONT'D)
          Now, predator and prey live in
          harmony.

Judy and the jaguar shake hands as the sheep throws glitter.

                    YOUNG JUDY (CONT'D)
          And every young mammal has
          multitudinous opportunities.

                    ASTRONAUT SHEEP
          Yeah, I don't have to cower in a
          herd anymore.

The Jaguar rips off his muumuu. She's wearing a homemade
astronaut costume.

                    ASTRONAUT SHEEP (CONT'D)
          Instead I can be an astronaut.

Catmull plays a slide whistle.

                    ACTUARY JAGUAR
          I don't have to be a lonely hunter
          any more.

The Jaguar rips off his muumuu. He's dressed in a suit.

                    ACTUARY
          Today I can hunt for tax
          exemptions. I'm gonna be an
          actuary!

                    YOUNG JUDY
          And I can make the world a better
          place! I am going to be...

Catmull plays a 70s-style cop show theme on the boom box.
Judy rips off her muumuu, revealing a POLICE OFFICER UNIFORM.
                                                         3.


                    YOUNG JUDY (CONT'D)
          A police officer!

Judy's parents, BONNIE & STU, look stunned. A mean fox kid,
GIDEON GREY, snickers. He's sitting next to a WEASEL KID.

                    GIDEON GREY
          Bunny cop. That is the most
          stupidest thing I ever heard.

                    YOUNG JUDY
          It may seem impossible to small
          minds--
              (points at Gideon)
          I'm looking at you Gideon Grey.

Catmull drops down a backdrop showing a bright city skyline.
He hits play on an uplifting song.

                    YOUNG JUDY (CONT'D)
          But just 211 miles away stands the
          great city of Zootopia! Where our
          ancestors first joined together in
          peace, and declared that anyone can
          be anything! Thank you and good
          night!

Judy gives a mighty thespian bow, to the sound of Catmull on
organ. The audience applauds. Judy's parents look concerned.


EXT. CARROT DAYS FESTIVAL - LATER THAT DAY

A festival replete with food booths, games and rides-- all
aggressively carrot-themed. Judy, in her Cop Costume, bounces
along with her folks. We catch their conversation mid-stream.

                    STU HOPPS
          Judy, you ever wonder how your mom
          and me got to be so darn happy?

                    YOUNG JUDY
          Nope.

                    STU HOPPS
          Well, we gave up on our dreams and
          we settled, right Bon?

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Oh yes, that's right, Stu. We
          settled hard.
                                                         4.


                    STU HOPPS
          See, that's the beauty of
          complacency, Jude. If you don't try
          anything new, you'll never fail.

                    YOUNG JUDY
          I like trying, actually.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          What your father means, hon, is
          it's gonna be difficult--
          impossible even-- for you to become
          a police officer.

                    STU HOPPS
          Right. There's never been a bunny
          cop.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          No.

                    STU HOPPS
          Bunnies don't do that.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Never.

                    STU HOPPS
          Never.

                    YOUNG JUDY
          Oh. Then I guess I'll have to be
          the first one. Because I am gonna
          make the world...
              (parkours against a
               vendor's stand)
          A better place!

                    STU HOPPS
          OR... um, heck, you wanna talk
          about making the world a better
          place--

The trio arrives at the Hopps Family Farm carrot booth, which
is manned by too many children to count.

                    STU HOPPS (CONT'D)
          --no better way to do it than
          becoming a carrot farmer.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Yes! Your dad, me, your 275
          brothers and sisters-- we're
          changing the world.
                                                         5.


                    STU HOPPS
          Yep.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          One carrot at a time...

                    STU HOPPS
          Amen to that. Carrot farming is a
          noble profession.

Judy spots GIDEON GREY stalking some SMALL ANIMALS. She
remains fixed on Gideon as Stu and Bonnie yap on obliviously.

                    BONNIE HOPPS (O.S.)
          Mmm hmm. Just putting the seeds in
          the ground.

                    STU HOPPS (O.S.)
          Ahh, at one with the soil.

We're back on Bonnie and Stu's conversation now.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          You get it. I mean, it's great to
          have dreams.

                    STU HOPPS
          Yeah, just as long as you don't
          believe in em too much.
              (finally noticing Judy's
               absence)
          Where in the heck'd she go?

ACROSS THE FAIR... From behind a tree, Judy watches as Gideon
Grey intimidates the astronaut sheep, SHARLA.

                    GIDEON GREY
          Gimme your tickets right now, or
          I'm gonna kick your meek little
          sheep butt.

                    SHARLA
          Ow! Cut it out, Gideon!

                    GIDEON GREY
          Baa-baa. What're ya gonna do, cry?

Gideon swipes Sharla's fair tickets.

                    YOUNG JUDY (O.S.)
          Hey!

Judy charges toward the danger.
                                                         6.


                    YOUNG JUDY (CONT'D)
          You heard her. Cut it out.

Gideon turns. There's Judy, projecting the image of a tiny
Clint Eastwood.

                    GIDEON GREY
          Nice costume, loser. What crazy
          world are you living in where you
          think a bunny could be a cop?

                    YOUNG JUDY
          Kindly return my friends' tickets.

Gideon pats the tickets in his pocket.

                    GIDEON GREY
          Come and get `em.... But watch out,
          `cause I'm a fox-- and like you
          said in your dumb little stage
          play, us predators used to eat
          prey. And that killer instinct's
          still in our Dunnahh.

                    TRAVIS THE WOLF HENCHMAN KID
              (sotto, to Gideon)
          Uh, I'm pretty much sure it's
          pronounced D-N-A.

                    GIDEON GREY
          Don't tell me what I know, Travis.

                    YOUNG JUDY
          You don't scare me, Gideon.

Gideon shoves Judy. Hard. She falls. The other prey animals
flee to safety behind a nearby tree, leaving her to face the
thugs alone.

                    GIDEON GREY
          You scared now?

Judy starts to tear up. Her nose starts to twitch.

                    TRAVIS THE WOLF HENCHMAN KID
          Lookit her nose twitch. She is
          scared!

                    GIDEON GREY
          Cry little baby bunny. Cry, cry --

Suddenly-- BAM! Judy kicks Gideon in the face with her hind
legs. He stumbles back, then checks his lip for blood.
                                                          7.


                    GIDEON GREY (CONT'D)
          Oh, you don't know when to quit, do
          ya?

He unsheathes his claws like a switchblade, then slaps her,
drawing blood from her cheek. She cowers, as do her scared
friends behind the tree.

                    GIDEON GREY (CONT'D)
          I want you to remember this moment--
          the next time you think you will
          ever be anything more than just a
          stupid, carrot farming dumb bunny.

Gideon and his pal head off, laughing and high-fiving. The
prey animals run back over to Judy, who wipes the blood from
her cheek. She fights tears, defeated.

                    GARETH THE DOUBTING SHEEP BOY
          That looks bad.

                    SHARLA
          Are you okay, Judy?

                    YOUNG JUDY
          Yeah... Yeah, I'm okay.

Judy smiles and then whips out the tickets as she gets up.

                    YOUNG JUDY (CONT'D)
          Here you go.

                    SHARLA
          Wow! You got our tickets!

                    GARETH THE DOUBTING SHEEP BOY
          You're awesome, Judy!

                    SHARLA
          Yeah! That Gideon Grey doesn't know
          what he's talkin' `bout.

                    YOUNG JUDY
          Well, he was right about one
          thing...

Judy picks up the cop hat, puts it on her head.

                    YOUNG JUDY (CONT'D)
          I don't know when to quit.

                                                    CUT TO:
                                                          8.


EXT. POLICE ACADEMY TRAINING FACILITY - DAY

Hopps and the comparatively huge CADETS sit in a circle as
MAJOR FRIEDKIN, an intimidating drill instructor, lectures.

                    MAJOR FRIEDKIN
          Listen up Cadets! Zootopia has 12
          unique ecosystems within its city
          limits-- Tundra Town, Sahara
          Square, Rainforest District, to
          name a few. You're gonna have to
          master all of them before you hit
          the streets-- or guess what?
              (to Hopps)
          You'll be dead!

IN SAHARA SQUARE SIMULATOR:

Hopps struggles through the sand.

                    MAJOR FRIEDKIN(CONT'D)
          Scorching sandstorm. You're dead,
          bunny bumpkin!

ON THE VINE-COVERED MONKEY BARS:

Hopps swings across the bars, simulating the RAINFOREST
DISTRICT. She falls off, landing face first in the mud.

                    MAJOR FRIEDKIN (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          1000 foot fall. You're dead, carrot
          face!

TUNDRA TOWN ICE WALL:

Judy and the cadets sprint toward the wall. The CLAWED
ANIMALS dig into the ice wall. Hopps slides off.

                    MAJOR FRIEDKIN (CONT'D)
          Frigid ice wall. You're dead, farm
          girl!

IN THE BOXING RING:

Hopps gets in the ring with a BIG BISON.

                    MAJOR FRIEDKIN (CONT'D)
          E-normous criminal.

Hopps gets punched in the nose.

                    MAJOR FRIEDKIN (CONT'D)
          You're dead!
                                                         9.


THREE QUICK CUTS OF FAILURE:

                    MAJOR FRIEDKIN (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          Dead! / Dead! / Dead!

IN THE TOILET:

Hopps ruses into a stall. The toilet is considerably larger
than she is. She shuts the door. We see her climb up the
toilet. In the next stall, we see the feet of a Hippo.

Then, KERSPLASH! Hopps falls into the toilet.

                    MAJOR FRIEDKIN (CONT'D)
          Filthy toilet. You're dead, fluff
          butt!

HOPPS ON HER OWN--

She runs at sunset-- after everyone else has called it a day.
We HEAR the drill instructor's voice echoing in her mind.

                    MAJOR FRIEDKIN (V.O.) (CONT'D)
          Just quit and go home, fuzzy bunny!

Then those of her parents...

                    STU HOPPS (V.O.)
          There's never been a bunny cop.

                     BONNIE HOPPS (V.O.)
          Never.

                     STU HOPPS (V.O.)
          Never.

Then Gideon's...

                    GIDEON GREY (V.O.)
          Just a stupid, carrot farming dumb
          bunny.


OVERNIGHT, IN THE BARRACKS:

Hopps stays up late studying, doing sit ups.

ON THE ICE WALL:

Hopps bounds up the wall, jumps off of the backs of the big
animals and makes it over, impressing the Major Friedkin.

IN THE RING:
                                                           10.


Hopps dodges a few swings. The Bison misses. Hopps bounds
over him and uses his momentum-- kicking his other hand into
his face, knocking him down.

                                                DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. POLICE ACADEMY - DAY

It's graduation day. MAYOR LIONHEART is at the podium.

                    LIONHEART
          As Mayor of Zootopia, I am proud to
          announce that my Mammal Inclusion
          Initiative has produced its first
          police academy graduate.

Judy stands proudly in her cop uniform.

                    LIONHEART (CONT'D)
          Valedictorian of her class, ZPD's
          very first rabbit officer... Judy
          Hopps.

Judy walks to the stage as those in attendance cheer-- her
FAMILY chief among them. ASSISTANT MAYOR BELLWETHER applauds.
She smiles at Judy, lost in the moment.

                    LIONHEART (CONT'D)
              (clearing his throat)
          Assistant Mayor Bellwether? Her
          badge.

                    BELLWETHER
          Oh! Yes right.

                       LIONHEART
          Thank you.

Bellwether steps forward to pin Hopps' ZPD badge on her.

                    LIONHEART (CONT'D)
          Judy, it is my great privilege to
          officially assign you to the heart
          of Zootopia: Precinct One, City
          Center.

Judy can barely contain her glee. Her parents are in shock.

                    BELLWETHER
          Congratulations, Officer Hopps.
                                                        11.


                    JUDY
          I won't let you down. This has been
          my dream since I was a kid.

                    BELLWETHER
          Ya know, it's a... It's a real
          proud day for us little guys.

                    LIONHEART
          Bellwether, make room will ya? Come
          on.

Lionheart shoves Bellwether out of the way.

                    LIONHEART (CONT'D)
          Okay, Officer Hopps. Let's see
          those teeth!

A group of PHOTOGRAPHERS aim their cameras. Lionheart steps
in front of Bellwether, edging her out of the photo. The
flashbulbs pop.


EXT. BUNNYBURROW TRAIN STATION - DAY

Stu, Bonnie, and several SIBLINGS accompany Judy to the train
station.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          We're real proud of you, Judy.

                    STU HOPPS
          Yeah. Scared, too.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Yes.

                    STU HOPPS
          Really, it's kind of a proud-scared
          combo. I mean, Zootopia. It's so
          far a away... It's such a big city.

                    JUDY
          Guys-- I've been working for this
          my whole life.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          We know. And we're just a little
          excited for you, but terrified.

                    JUDY
          The only thing we have to fear is
          fear itself.
                                                        12.


                    STU HOPPS
          And also bears. We have bears to
          fear, too. To say nothing of lions,
          and wolves...

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Wolves?

                    STU HOPPS
          ...weasels...

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          You play cribbage with a weasel.

                    STU HOPPS
          And he cheats like there's no
          tomorrow. You know what, pretty
          much all predators-- and Zootopia's
          full of `em.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
              (scolding)
          Oh, Stu.

                    STU HOPPS
          And foxes are the worst.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
              (retreating)
          Actually, your father does have a
          point there. It's in their biology.
          Remember what happened with Gideon
          Grey.

                    JUDY
          When I was 9. Gideon Grey was a
          jerk, who happened to be a fox. I
          know plenty of bunnies who are
          jerks.

                    STU HOPPS
          Sure. Yeah, we all do. Absolutely.
          But just in case, we made you a
          little care package to take with
          you.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          And I put some snacks in there.

Stu begins pulling a bunch of PINK FOX DETERRENTS from a bag.

                    STU HOPPS
          This is fox deterrent.
                                                        13.


                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Yeah that's safe to have there.

                    STU HOPPS
          This is fox repellent...

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Okay, the deterrent and the
          repellent. That's all she needs.

                    STU HOPPS
          Check this out!

Stu removes a Fox Taser, fires it up. It sizzles.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Oh for goodness sake. She has no
          need for a fox taser, Stu.

                    STU HOPPS
          Oh c'mon. When is there not a need
          for a fox taser?

                    JUDY
          Okay, look-- I will take this to
          make you stop talking.

Judy grabs the pink fox repellent from the bag as the train
pulls up.

                    STU HOPPS
          Terrific! Everyone wins!

                    TRAIN CONDUCTOR
          Arriving-- Zootopia Express!

                    JUDY
          OK. Gotta go. Bye!

Judy heads for the train, head held high. No turning back.

Stu and Bonnie watch, both holding back tears. Suddenly, the
emotion catches up with Judy. She turns, runs back to her
parents, hugs them tight.

                    JUDY (CONT'D)
          I love you guys.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Love you, too!

One more squeeze, then Judy runs off and jumps on the train.
                                                        14.


                    STU HOPPS
          Oh cripes, here come the
          waterworks.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Oh Stu, pull it together.

                    JUDY
          Bye everybody!

                    COTTON
          Bye, Judy! I love you!

                    CROWD OF BUNNIES
          Bye!

As the train pulls away, her family runs next to it, waving.

                    JUDY
          Bye!

Judy looks back as their faces recede into the distance. The
train blasts past Bunnyburrow, passing its exponentially
increasing population sign.

Judy pulls out her iPhone and clicks play... her new life is
about to begin and we

                                                  CUT TO:


A MONTAGE --

As Hopps takes the train, it rounds a curve. She looks up.
Her eyes light up. There in the distance is...


EXT. ZOOTOPIA CITY - ESTABLISHING

...THE UNBELIEVABLE ANIMAL METROPOLIS of ZOOTOPIA, which is
comprised of amazing habitat "boroughs." The train whips past
TUNDRATOWN, SAVANNA CENTRAL, RAINFOREST DISTRICT,
MEADOWLANDS, SAHARA SQUARE, etc.


INT. ZOOTOPIA CENTRAL STATION - A LITTLE LATER

Hopps spills out of the train... and we are now in a MULTI-
SCALE ENVIRONMENT: everything from mice to elephants.
                                                        15.


EXT. DOWNTOWN ZOOTOPIA - A LITTLE LATER

Hopps emerges into the main Zootopia central plaza. It's an
amazing, magnificent place.

A JUMBOTRON featuring a gazelle pop star, GAZELLE, blares its
message in a loop.

                    GAZELLE
          I am Gazelle. Welcome to Zootopia!

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. HOPPS'S APARTMENT BUILDING, HALLWAY - DAY

DHARMA ARMADILLO, Hopps's older ARMADILLO LANDLADY, opens the
door to Hopps' new apartment-- which we can't see yet.

                    DHARMA ARMADILLO
          And welcome to the Grand Pangolin
          Arms. "Luxury Apartments with
          Charm."

Hopps discovers the room is a tiny, crappy studio apartment.

                    DHARMA ARMADILLO (CONT'D)
          Complimentary de-lousing once a
          month.
              (handing over the keys)
          Don't lose your key.

                       HOPPS
          Thank you!

As Dharma leaves, Hopps' volatile, artsy NEIGHBORS, KUDU and
ORYX POOTOSSER, pass by in the hall.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Oh hi, I'm Judy! Your new neighbor!

                    KUDU POOTOSSER
          Yeah? Well we're loud.

                    ORYX POOTOSSER
          Don't expect us to apologize for
          it.

Before Hopps can respond, they're gone, leaving Hopps alone.
She looks around... blank-faced so it's tough to read her
emotions.

                    HOPPS
          Greasy walls... rickety bed...
                                                           16.


                     KUDU POOTOSSER (O.S.)
          Shut up!

                    ORYX POOTOSSER (O.S.)
          You shut up!

                    KUDU POOTOSSER (O.S.)
          No! You shut up!

                     HOPPS
          Crazy neighbors...
              (big smile as she flops on
               the bed)
          I love it!

As the shouting continues, she stretches out on her bed,
exhausted but overjoyed.


WAKE UP MONTAGE - MORNING

Quick, rhythmic cuts of:

- Alarm clock: Beep. Beep. Beep.

- Dressing: Vest. Badge. Belt.

On the bedside table sits the PINK FOX REPELLENT. Judy
glances at it and smirks-- taking it would be silly-- she
walks out of frame. HOLD on the table. One second. Then
Judy's hand comes back into frame and grabs the Repellent.


INT. ZOOTOPIA POLICE DEPARTMENT - MORNING

Utter mayhem. COPS parade PERPS through the lobby-- one is
wearing cuffs and a plastic (not scary) safety muzzle, he
complains to the BEAR COP marching him by.

                    LEOPARD
          C'mon! He bared his teeth first.

We land at the front desk and find CLAWHAUSER, a PUDGY
CHEETAH COP, happily eating a bowl of Lucky Chomps cereal.

                    HOPPS (O.C.)
          Scuse me! Down here? Hi.

Clawhauser leans over the desk to find Hopps.

                    CLAWHAUSER
          O-M goodness! They really did hire
          a bunny. What?!
                    (MORE)
                                                        17.

                    CLAWHAUSER (CONT'D)
          I gotta tell ya, you are even cuter
          than I thought you'd be.

                    HOPPS
              (a little wince)
          Ooo, uh, you probably didn't know,
          but a bunny can call another bunny
          "cute," but when other animals do
          it, it's a little...

                    CLAWHAUSER
              (gasps, realizing)
          I am so sorry. Me, Benjamin
          Clawhauser, the guy everyone thinks
          is just a flabby, donut-loving cop,
          stereotyping you...?

                    HOPPS
          It's okay-- oh, you've actually
          you've actually got a-- there's a--
          in your neck-- the fold-- the--
          there's--

Clawhauser removes a small donut from under some neck fat.

                    CLAWHAUSER
          Oh, there you went, you little
          dickens!

He crams the donut into his mouth.

                    HOPPS
              (awkwardly laughing)
          I should get to roll call, so...
          which way do I?

                    CLAWHAUSER
          Oh! Bullpen's over there to the
          left.

                    HOPPS
          Great, thank you!

Clawhauser watches admiringly as she heads to the bullpen.

                    CLAWHAUSER
              (to himself, wistful)
          Aw... That poor little bunny's
          gonna get eaten alive.
                                                        18.


INT. ZPD - BULLPEN - CONTINUOUS

Hopps enters the bullpen, by far the smallest animal in the
room: rhinos, buffalo, hippos, elephants, etc. Hopps holds
her paw out to a tough RHINO, MCHORN.

                    HOPPS
          Hey. Officer Hopps. You ready to
          make the world a better place?

McHorn gives Hopps a reluctant fist bump, nearly knocking her
off the chair.

                     OFFICER HIGGINS (O.S.)
          TEN HUT!

In walks CHIEF BOGO, a gruff CAPE BUFFALO. He takes the dais.
Everyone snaps to attention and starts stomping the floor.

                    BOGO
          All right, all right. Everybody
          sit.

As Hopps sits, she disappears below the DESK that is meant
for a rhino.

                    BOGO (CONT'D)
          I've got three items on the docket.
          First... we need to acknowledge the
          elephant in the room.
              (nods to ELEPHANT)
          Francine, happy birthday.

An elephant, FRANCINE, blushes as other cops clap.

                    BOGO (CONT'D)
          Number two: There are some new
          recruits with us I should
          introduce. But I'm not going to,
          because I don't care. Finally...

He turns to a push pin-pocked MAP that's covered in photos of
MISSING MAMMALS. Hopps's eyes go wide.

                    BOGO (CONT'D)
          ...We have 14 missing mammal cases.
          All predators, from a giant polar
          bear, to a teensy little otter. And
          City Hall is right up my tail to
          find them. This is priority number
          one. Assignments!

HIGGINS hands Bogo a stack of CASE FILES. Bogo puts on his
reading glasses, examining the files as he assigns cases.
                                                        19.


                    BOGO (CONT'D)
          Officers Grizzoli, Fangmeyer,
          Delgato-- your teams take Missing
          Mammals from the Rainforest
          District. Officers McHorn,
          Rhinowitz, Wolfard, your teams take
          Sahara Square. Officers Higgins,
          Snarlov, Trunkaby: Tundratown. And
          finally, our first bunny, Officer
          Hopps.

Hopps sits up, expectant but steely. Bogo looks at the final
case file in his hand. He takes a dramatic breath, then:

                    BOGO (CONT'D)
          Parking Duty. Dismissed!

                    HOPPS
          Parking duty?
              (runs after Bogo)
          Uh, Chief? Chief Bogo?

Bogo looks around... then down to find Hopps.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Sir, you said there were 14 missing
          mammal cases?

                    BOGO
          So.

                    HOPPS
          So I can handle one. You probably
          forgot, but I was top of my class
          at the academy.

                    BOGO
          Didn't forget. Just don't care.

                    HOPPS
          Sir, I'm not just some "token"
          bunny.

                    BOGO
          Well, then writing a hundred
          tickets a day should be easy.

He goes, slamming the door behind him. Judy stomps her foot.

                    HOPPS
          100 tickets...? I'm not gonna write
          100 tickets... I'm gonna write 200
          tickets!
                    (MORE)
                                                           20.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
              (then, to the closed door)
          Before noon!


INT. / EXT. METER MAID CART - DAY

Hopps dons a vest, buckles her seat belt, floors the pedal
and... takes off at 2 miles an hour. Which leads to a

PARKING METER MONTAGE --

Hopps zooms past a row of cars, marking their tires. Cruising
the streets, her super-sensitive ears hear a meter ding. She
slams her brakes-- then proudly issues Ticket #1.

Ding! Another meter goes off. Then another. And another.
She's on a roll. She looks down at her counter. It's at 200.

                    HOPPS
          Boom! 200 tickets before noon.

A final ding... Reveal: her own traffic cart is at an expired
meter. Hopps rolls her eyes and writes herself a ticket.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          201.

As Hopps puts the ticket on her windshield, she hears a voice
across the street:

                    TRUCK DRIVER (O.S.)
          Hey, watch where you're going, Fox!

Hopps looks across the street to see... a RED FOX. Hopps
looks at him, a little suspicious.

The Fox looks around, then slinks into a café. Hopps runs
across the street and peeks in the window. It's an ice cream
parlor, but... the FOX IS GONE.

                    HOPPS
              (sotto)
          Where'd he go...


INT. JUMBEAUX'S CAFE - MOMENTS LATER

Elephants scoop ice cream with their trunks, suck up nuts
with their trunks. It's cute but also disgusting. As Hopps
enters, she spots the fox, NICK WILDE, at the front of the
line and overhears the proprietor, JERRY, addressing him.
                                                         21.


                    JERRY JUMBEAUX, JR.
          Listen, I don't know what you're
          doing skulking around during
          daylight hours, but I don't want
          any trouble in here... So hit the
          road.

Hopps unsnaps the holster of her PINK FOX REPELLENT.

                    NICK
          I'm not looking for any trouble
          either, sir. I simply want to buy a
          Jumbo Pop for my little boy.

Ready for action, slowly creeping forward, Hopps's expression
changes when she sees that Nick is with his TODDLER SON.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
              (to the boy)
          You want the red or the blue, pal?

Staring at the cute little boy, Hopps is embarrassed by her
impulse. She snaps the Repellent holster and begins to leave.

                    HOPPS
              (disgusted with herself)
          I'm such a...

                    JERRY JUMBEAUX, JR.
          Oh come on, kid. Back up. Listen,
          buddy, what? There aren't any fox
          ice cream joints in your part of
          town?

Hopps suddenly stops. Her ears go up and she turns around.

                    NICK
          Uh, no no, there are. There are.
          It's just, my boy--
              (tousles boy's hair)
          --this goofy little stinker-- he
          loves all things elephant. Wants to
          be one when he grows up.

The boy gives a TOOT-TOOT with his toy elephant trunk.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Isn't it adorable? Who the heck am
          I to crush his little dreams, huh?
          Right?

                    JERRY JUMBEAUX, JR.
          Look, you probably can't read, fox
          but the sign says...
                    (MORE)
                                                        22.

                    JERRY JUMBEAUX, JR. (CONT'D)
              (slowly reads SIGN,
               belittling)
          WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO REFUSE
          SERVICE TO ANYONE. So beat it.

                    ELEPHANT
          You're holding up the line.

The little fox is about to cry, when Hopps walks up.

                    HOPPS (O.S.)
          Hello? Excuse me?

                    JERRY JUMBEAUX, JR.
          Hey, you're gonna have to wait your
          turn like everyone else, metermaid.

                    HOPPS
          Actually...
              (revealing badge)
          I'm an officer. Just had a quick
          question. Are your customers aware
          they're getting snot and mucous
          with their cookies and cream?

An ELEPHANT COUPLE overhear and spit out their ice cream.

                    JERRY JUMBEAUX, JR.
          What are you talkin' about?

                    HOPPS
          Well, I don't wanna cause you any
          trouble, but I believe scooping ice
          cream with an un-gloved trunk is a
          Class 3 Health Code Violation...

A guilty EMPLOYEE releases a scoop from their trunk.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          ...Which is kind of a big deal. Of
          course-- I could let you off with a
          warning if you were to glove those
          trunks and, I don't know, finish
          selling this nice dad and his son
          a... what was it?

                    NICK
          A Jumbo Pop. Please.

                    HOPPS
          A Jumbo Pop.
                                                         23.


                    JERRY JUMBEAUX, JR.
              (stews for a beat, then)
          Fifteen dollars.

                     NICK
          Thank you so much.
              (to Hopps)
          Thank you.
              (then, digs for wallet)
          Oh no, are you kidding me? I don't
          have my wallet. I'd lose my head if
          it weren't attached to my neck,
          that's the truth. Oh boy, I'm sorry
          pal. Gotta be about the worst
          birthday ever. Please don't be mad
          at me.
              (kisses him, to Hopps)
          Thanks, anyway.

He turns to go. Hopps slaps some money on the counter.

                    HOPPS
          Keep the change.


EXT. JUMBEAUX'S CAFE - MOMENTS LATER

Hopps has the Toddler's hand. Nick holds a HUGE JUMBO-POP.

                    NICK
          Officer, I can't thank you enough.
          So kind, really, can I pay you
          back?

                    HOPPS
          Oh no, my treat-- it just-- y'know,
          it burns me up to see folks with
          such backward attitudes toward
          foxes. I just wanna say, you're a
          great dad and just a... a real
          articulate fella.

                    NICK
          Ah, well, that is high praise. It's
          rare that I find someone so non-
          patronizing... Officer...

                    HOPPS
              (totally misses his dig)
          Hopps. Mr...

                    NICK
          Wilde. Nick Wilde.
                                                        24.


                    HOPPS
              (to Toddler)
          And you little guy, you want to be
          an elephant when you grow up... you
          be an elephant-- because this is
          Zootopia, anyone can be anything.

Hopps puts a STICKER BADGE on the boy's chest.

                    NICK
          Ah, boy, I tell him that all the
          time. All right here ya go--
              (hands him popsicle)
          Two paws. Yeah. Oh, look at that
          smile, that's a happy birthday
          smile! All right, give her a little
          bye-bye toot toot.

The kid toots.

                    HOPPS
          Toot, toot!

                     NICK
          Bye now!

                     HOPPS
          Goodbye!

Hopps walks off with a spring in her step.


EXT. SAHARA SQUARE - DAY

Hopps continues to write tickets. As she leaves a ticket on
another car, she can see a few blocks away. It's NICK and his
KID. Hopps gives them a wave, but they don't notice her.

                    HOPPS
          Oh! Hey, little toot toot--

Hopps realizes they are melting their jumbo-pop in the hot
sun, channeling the juice into jugs. Huh? Nick and his kid
pack the jugs into a van and NICK'S SON gets in the driver's
seat. They drive off, passing Hopps, who stares, confused.


EXT. TUNDRATOWN - A LITTLE LATER

Hopps follows them to... Tundratown, where Nick's "son" uses
his little paw prints to create molds they pour the popsicle
juice into, creating dozens of smaller popsicles. Hopps looks
on, scandalized.
                                                          25.


EXT. SAVANNAH CENTRAL - A LITTLE LATER

Hopps watches them resell the "Pawpsicles" at marked-up
prices to LEMMINGS... when one buys one, they all do.

                    NICK
          Pawpsicles! Get your pawpsicles!

Nick rakes in the cash. As the lemmings leave, they throw
their used popsicle sticks into a RECYCLING BIN. A second
later, Nick's "son," FINNICK, emerges from the bin with a
bundle of used popsicle sticks. Hopps is mortified.


EXT. LITTLE RODENTIA - A LITTLE LATER

Hopps watches Nick plop down a big bundle of USED POPSICLE
STICKS in front of a MOUSE CONSTRUCTION WORKER.

                    NICK
          Lumber delivery!

                    MOUSE CONSTRUCTION WORKER
          What's with the color?

                    NICK
          The color? Uh... It's redwood.

Hopps has now graduated to genuine anger.


EXT. OUTSIDE LITTLE RODENTIA - MOMENTS LATER

Nick hands Finnick a wad of cash.

                    NICK
          39...40. There you go. Way to work
          that diaper, big guy. Hey, no kiss
          bye-bye for daddy?

                    FINNICK
              (super-deep voice)
          You kiss me tomorrow, I'll bite
          your face off. Ciao.

As Finnick drives off in his van, BLARING LOUD FRENCH RAP
MUSIC. We discover HOPPS behind it, and she is not happy.

                    HOPPS
          Well. I stood up for you, and you
          lied to me. You liar!
                                                        26.


                    NICK
          It's called a hustle, sweetheart.
          And I'm not the liar, he is.

Nick points behind Hopps. She turns... no one. She turns
back. Nick is gone-- his tail disappears around a corner.

                    HOPPS
          Hey!

Nick walks on, calmly. Hopps hurries up to him.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Alright, slick Nick, you're under
          arrest.

                    NICK
          Really, for what?

                    HOPPS
          Gee I don't know, how `bout selling
          food without a permit, transporting
          undeclared commerce across borough
          lines, false advertising...

Nick smiles and produces those documents.

                    NICK
          Permit. Receipt of declared
          commerce. And I didn't falsely
          advertise anything. Take care.

                    HOPPS
          You told that mouse the popsicle
          sticks were redwood!

                      NICK
          That's right. "Red wood." With a
          space in the middle. Wood that is
          red.
               (then)
          You can't touch me, Carrots, I been
          doing this since I was born.

                    HOPPS
          You're gonna wanna refrain from
          calling me Carrots...

                    NICK
          My bad. I just naturally assumed
          you came from some little carrot-
          choked podunk, no?
                                                        27.


                    HOPPS
              (isn't it obvious?)
          Ah, no. Podunk is in Deerbrooke
          County, and I grew up in
          Bunnyburrow.

                    NICK
          Okay. Tell me if this story sounds
          familiar:
              (harsher now, rapidly)
          Naïve little hick with good grades
          and big ideas decides, "Hey lookit
          me, I'm gonna move to Zootopia--
          where Predators and Prey live in
          harmony and sing Kumbaya!" Only to
          find-- whoopsie, we don't all get
          along. And that dream of becoming a
          big city cop? Double whoopsie!
          She's a meter maid. And whoopsie
          number threesie-- NO ONE cares
          about her or her dreams. And soon
          enough those dreams die and our
          bunny sinks into emotional and
          literal squalor living in a box
          under a bridge. Til finally she has
          no choice but to go back home with
          that cute, fuzzy wuzzy little tail
          between her legs to become-- you're
          from Bunnyburrow, is that what you
          said?-- so how `bout a carrot
          farmer... That sound about right?

She's speechless-- How did he get my number so quickly? A
RHINO almost crushes her.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Be careful now, it won't just be
          your dreams getting crushed.

                    HOPPS
              (ever-so-slightly rattled)
          Hey! Hey! No one tells me what I
          can or can't be! Especially not
          some jerk who never had the guts to
          try to be anything more than a
          popsicle hustler!

                    NICK
          Alright look, everyone comes to
          Zootopia thinking they can be
          anything they want. Well you can't.
          You can only be what you are.
              (points to himself)
          Sly fox.
                    (MORE)
                                                        28.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
              (points to her)
          Dumb bunny.

                    HOPPS
          I am NOT a dumb bunny.

                    NICK
          Right. And that's not wet cement.

She looks down. She's landed in wet cement.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
              (as he goes)
          You'll never be a real cop. You're
          a cute meter maid though. Maybe a
          supervisor one day. Hang in
          there...


INT. HOPPS'S APARTMENT, HALLWAY - EVENING

CLOSE ON HER WELCOME MAT: Hopps wipes off her cement covered
feet. Then she enters

THE APARTMENT --

Hopps turns on the radio. Everybody Hurts plays. She changes
the station. A sadder song comes on. She changes the station
repeatedly, each song progressively sadder. Finally, she
lands on a treacly instrumental that will score the scene.

She puts in a microwave dinner: CARROTS FOR ONE. Hopps takes
her food (A SINGLE CARROT) and sits at a small table.

Her phone rings. INSERT: MOM & DAD FACETIME. Hopps shakes her
head, sighs, then puts on a fake smile and answers.

                    HOPPS
          Oh hey, it's my parents!

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Aw there she is! Hi sweetheart!

THE FACETIME cuts between Bonnie on her phone. Stu will pop
in and out of frame.

                    STU HOPPS
          Hey there, Jude the Dude! How was
          your first day on the force?

                    HOPPS
          It was real great.
                                                        29.


                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Yeah? Everything you ever hoped?

                    HOPPS
          Mmm. Absolutely. And more.
          Everyone's so nice. And I feel like
          I'm really making a difference--

                    STU HOPPS
              (pops head into frame)
          Hey, wait a second. Holy cripes,
          Bonnie! Look at that!

                    BONNIE HOPPS
              (a discovery)
          Oh my sweet heaven-- Judy, are you
          a meter maid?

Hopps is still wearing her vest, and her hat is on the chair.

                    HOPPS
              (panicked)
          Oh this? No! Oh, no no! This is
          just a temporary thing--

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          It's the safest job on the force!

                    STU HOPPS
          Ah, she's not a real cop! Our
          prayers have been answered!

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Glorious day!

                    STU HOPPS
          Meter maid, meter maid!

                       HOPPS
          Dad! Dad--

                    STU HOPPS
          Meter maid, meter maid!

                    HOPPS
          DAD! You know what-- it's been a
          really long day, I should really--

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          That's right. You get some rest!

                    STU HOPPS
          Those meters aren't gonna maid
          themselves.
                                                           30.


                     BONNIE HOPPS
          Bye bye!

                    HOPPS
              (eye roll)
          Buh-bye.

She hangs up, defeated. The SELF-PITYING MUSIC comes up full.

                    ORYX POOTOSSER (O.S.)
          Hey Bunny! Turn down that
          depressing music!

                    KUDU POOTOSSER (O.S.)
          Leave the meter maid alone! Didn't
          you hear her conversation? She
          feels like a failure!

Judy turns off the music.

                    ORYX POOTOSSER (O.S.)
          Oh, shut up!

                    KUDU POOTOSSER (O.S.)
          You shut up!

                    ORYX POOTOSSER (O.S.)
          You shut up!

                    HOPPS
              (quietly to herself)
          Tomorrow's another day...

                    ORYX POOTOSSER (O.S.)
          Yeah, but it might be worse!

Off Judy's exhausted look, we:

                                                  CUT TO:


EXT. STREETS OF ZOOTOPIA - THE NEXT DAY

Hopps, on meter maid duty, thunks a ticket on a windshield.

                    MOOSE
          I was 30 seconds over!

Another meter dings, Hopps puts another ticket on a very
small windshield.

                    ANGRY GERBIL LADY
          Ugh! Yeah you're a real hero, lady!
                                                          31.


DING! Another ticket down. A MOTHER HIPPO picks up the
ticket, her SMALL CHILD looks right at Hopps.

                    HIPPO CHILD
          My mommy says she wishes you were
          dead.

                    ANGRY DRIVER (O.S.)
          Un-cool, rabbit. My tax dollars pay
          your salary.


INT. METER MAID CART

After what has clearly been a series of these encounters,
Hopps repeatedly bangs her head on the steering wheel.

                    HOPPS
              (less convinced with each
               utterance)
          I am a real cop. I am a real cop. I
          am a real cop. I am a real cop...

                       FRANTIC PIG (O.S.)
          Hey!

Suddenly, a PIG bangs on the cart's window. Hopps startles.

                    FRANTIC PIG (CONT'D)
          You! Bunny!

                     HOPPS
              (rote)
          Sir, if you have a grievance, you
          may contest your citation in
          traffic court.

                    FRANTIC PIG
          What're you talking about? My shop!
          It was just robbed! Look, he's
          getting away! Well are you a cop or
          not?

Hopps sees a WEASEL running with a bag of stolen goods.

                    HOPPS
              (snapping out of it)
          Oh, yes! Yes! Don't worry, sir, I
          got this!


EXT. STREETS OF ZOOTOPIA - CONTINUOUS

Hopps jumps out and gives chase-- ditching her silly vest.
                                                        32.


                    HOPPS
          Stop! Stop in the name of the law!

                    DUKE WEASELTON
          Catch me if you can, Cottontail!

The chase is on. McHorn screeches up in his cop car.

                    DUKE WEASELTON (CONT'D)
          Whoa. Coming through!

                    MCHORN
          This is Officer McHorn, we got a 10-
          31.

Hopps slides across his hood.

                    HOPPS
          I got dibs! Officer Hopps, I am in
          pursuit!

Hopps chases the Weasel, who races through Savannah Central.
As Hopps advances, the Weasel ducks into... LITTLE RODENTIA.
Thanks to her small size, Hopps follows him in.

                    HOPPS(CONT'D)
          You! Freeze!

                     MCHORN
              (arriving, but too big to
                enter)
          Hey! Metermaid! Wait for the real
          cops!


EXT. LITTLE RODENTIA - CONTINUOUS

Hopps emerges in Little Rodentia, teeming with tiny rodents.

                    HOPPS
          Stop!

Hopps spots the Weasel, who's using two mouse cars as skates.
She chases after him, smashing through Little Rodentia. As
the Weasel jumps off the top of a mouse building, he knocks
it over, but Hopps is able to save them from crashing.

Resuming the chase, Hopps jumps off the building-- landing
precariously in the midst of a large group of mice.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Oh! Oh, sorry! Coming through!
          `Scuse me! `Scuse me. Pardon...
                                                           33.


Hopps locates Weaselton, who's safely making his escape on
the top of a tiny mouse train.

                    DUKE WEASELTON
          Bon voyage, flat foot!

But Hopps won't quit. She takes a short cut and knocks him
off the train. Rodents scream and run amidst the chaos.

                    HOPPS
          Hey! Stop right there!

The Weasel throws an ornamental donut at Hopps.

                    DUKE WEASELTON
          Have a donut, coppah!

But the donut misses and rolls towards some SHREWS coming out
of "Mousies."

                    FRU FRU SHREW
          Ohmygawd, did you see those leopard
          print jeggings?
              (sees the donut about to
               kill her)
          Aaaaaaaaaaaagh!

But at the last second... Hopps stops it! Deep breath...

                    HOPPS
          I love your hair.

                    FRU FRU SHREW
          Aw... thank you.

Meanwhile, the Weasel spots the bag he was stealing and
smugly picks it up, ready to leave.

                    DUKE WEASELTON
          Come to papa...

Then out of nowhere, Hopps dumps the donut on his head.


INT. ZPD - LOBBY - A LITTLE LATER

The lobby is overflowing with ANIMALS filing MISSING MAMMAL
REPORTS. Clawhauser is dealing with an otter, MRS. OTTERTON.

                    CLAWHAUSER
          Okay, you're gonna have to be
          patient and wait in line just like
          everyone else, Mrs. Otterton, okay?
                                                        34.


Just then: BAM! The Weasel (in donut) rolls through the front
door and hits Clawhauser's desk. It settles, revealing Hopps.

                    HOPPS
          I popped the weasel!

Behind her, Chief Bogo yells from the second floor.

                     BOGO
          HOPPS!


INT. ZPD - BOGO'S OFFICE - A LITTLE LATER

Hopps sits in a big chair in front of Bogo, like a kid in the
principal's office. Bogo looks over a report.

                    BOGO
          Abandoning your post, inciting a
          scurry, reckless endangerment of
          rodents... but to be fair, you did
          stop a master criminal from
          stealing two dozen... moldy onions.

                    HOPPS
          Hate to disagree with you, sir, but
          those aren't onions. Those are a
          crocus varietal called Midnicampum
          Holicithias. They're a Class C
          Botanical, sir. I grew up in a
          family where plant husbandry was
          kind of a thing.

                    BOGO
          Shut your tiny mouth, now.

                    HOPPS
          Sir, I got the bad guy. That's my
          job.

                    BOGO
          Your job is putting tickets on
          parked cars.

                    CLAWHAUSER (INTERCOM)
          Chief, uh, Mrs. Otterton's here to
          see you again.

                     BOGO
          Not now.
                                                        35.


                    CLAWHAUSER(INTERCOM)
          Okay, I just didn't know if you
          wanted to take it this time, she
          seems really upset--

                     BOGO
          Not now!

                    HOPPS
          Sir, I don't want to be a meter
          maid... I wanna be a real cop.

                    BOGO
          Do you think the Mayor asked what I
          wanted when he assigned you to me?

                    HOPPS
          But sir, if you--

                    BOGO
          Life isn't some cartoon musical
          where you sing a little song and
          your insipid dreams magically come
          true. So let it go!

MRS. OTTERTON barges in, with Clawhauser trailing, wheezing.

                    MRS. OTTERTON
          Chief Bogo please-- five minutes of
          your time. Please...

                    CLAWHAUSER
          I'm sorry, sir, I tried to stop
          her, she is super slippery. I gotta
          go sit down.

                    BOGO
          Ma'am, as I've told you, we are
          doing everything we can...

                    MRS. OTTERTON
          My husband has been missing for ten
          days. His name is Emmitt Otterton.

                    BOGO
          Yes, I know.

                    MRS. OTTERTON
          He's a florist. We have two
          beautiful children. He would never
          just disappear.

Mrs. Otterton reveals her own sweet little photo of Emmitt
with her and the family.
                                                        36.


                    BOGO
          Ma'am, our detectives are very
          busy.

                    MRS. OTTERTON
          Please. There's got to be somebody
          to find my Em.

                    BOGO
          Mrs. Otterton--

                    HOPPS (O.S.)
          I will find him.

Mrs. Otterton races over to Hopps and gives her a big hug of
relief. Bogo looks to Hopps, ready to explode.

                    MRS. OTTERTON
          Oh, thank you! Bless you, bless you
          little bunny!
              (hands picture of family)
          Take this. Find my Emmitt. Bring
          him home to me and my babies.
          Please?

Bogo grunts and ushers Mrs. Otterton back outside.

                    BOGO
          Mrs. Otterton? Please wait out
          here.

                    MRS. OTTERTON
          Of course. Oh, thank you both so
          much.

                    BOGO
          One second.

He closes the door and turns to Hopps, furious.

                    BOGO (CONT'D)
          You're fired.

                    HOPPS
          What? Why?!

                    BOGO
          Insubordination. Now, I'm going to
          open this door and you're going to
          tell that otter you're a former
          meter maid with delusions of
          grandeur who will not be taking the
          case.
                                                           37.


Bogo opens the door, to find... Bellwether, hugging Mrs.
Otterton.

                    BELLWETHER
          I just heard Officer Hopps is
          taking the case!

                    BOGO
          Assistant Mayor Bellwether...

                    BELLWETHER
              (texting)
          The Mammal Inclusion Initiative is
          really starting to pay off! Mayor
          Lionheart is just gonna be so
          jazzed!

                     BOGO
          No! No, let's not tell the mayor
          just yet--

                    BELLWETHER
          And I sent it, and it is done, so I
          did do that. All right, well I'd
          say the case is in good hands! Us
          little guys really need to stick
          together! Right?

                       HOPPS
          Like glue!

                    BELLWETHER
              (amused laughter)
          Good one! Just call me if you ever
          need anything, okay? You've always
          got a friend at City Hall, Judy.
          Alright, bye bye!

                    HOPPS
          Thank you, ma'am.

Bogo forces a smile and closes the door, even more pissed.

                    BOGO
          I will give you 48 hours.

                       HOPPS
          YES!

                    BOGO
          That's two days to find Emmitt
          Otterton.
                                                          38.


                    HOPPS
          Okay.

                    BOGO
          But, you strike out-- you resign.

Hopps is taken aback by that for a moment... then nods.

                    HOPPS
          Oh, uh... okay... deal.

                    BOGO
          Splendid. Clawhauser will give you
          the complete case file.


INT. ZPD - DESK AREA - A LITTLE LATER

Clawhauser places the Otterton file on his desk for Hopps.

                    CLAWHAUSER
          Here ya go! One missing otter!

Hopps opens the file. It's a single piece of paper. What?

                    HOPPS
          That's it?!

                    CLAWHAUSER
          Yikes! That is the smallest case
          file I've ever seen! Leads: none,
          witnesses: none-- and you're not in
          the computer system yet, so
          resources: none.
              (chuckles)
          I hope you didn't stake your career
          on cracking this one.

Clawhauser takes a bite of his donut and the crumbs land on a
picture in the file, drawing Hopps's attention to it.

                    HOPPS
          Okay.
              (deep breath)
          "Last known sighting..."

Hopps brushes away the crumbs, revealing a picture of Mr.
Otterton on the street. Clawhauser annoyingly slurps from a
soda bottle. Hopps squints at the picture, intrigued.

                     HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Can I just borrow--
              (grabbing soda bottle)
          Thank you.
                                                          39.


Hopps uses Clawhauser's bottle to enlarge the picture. She
sees Mr. Otterton holding a PAWPSICLE.

                       HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Pawpsicle.

                    CLAWHAUSER
          The murder weapon!

                    HOPPS
          Get your pawpsicle...

                    CLAWHAUSER
          Yeah, `cause that... What does that
          mean?

                    HOPPS
          It means I... have a lead.

                                                DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. DOWNTOWN STREET - LATER

We find Nick pushing a BABY STROLLER. HOPPS zooms up in her
traffic cart, smiling.

                    HOPPS
          Hi! Hello? It's me again!

                    NICK
          Hey, it's Officer Toot Toot.

                    HOPPS
              (fake laugh, humoring him)
          Ha-ha-ho, no actually it's Officer
          Hopps, and I'm here to ask you some
          questions about a case.

                     NICK
          What happened, meter maid? Did
          someone steal a traffic cone? It
          wasn't me.

Hopps looks ahead, Nick has gone around the corner. Hopps
pulls in front of Nick and sounds her siren.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Hey, Carrots, you're gonna wake the
          baby, I gotta get to work.
                                                       40.


                    HOPPS
          This is important, sir. I think
          your ten dollars worth of popsicles
          can wait.

                    NICK
          I make 200 bucks a day, fluff. 365
          days a year, since I was 12, and
          time is money, hop along.

                    HOPPS
          Please, just look at the picture.

Hopps holds up the traffic cam picture of the Otter.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          You sold Mr. Otterton that popsicle
          right? Do you know him?

                    NICK
          I know everybody. And I also know
          that somewhere there's a toy store
          missing its stuffed animal, so why
          don't you get back to your box.

Hopps' ears droop.

                    HOPPS
          Fine. Then we'll have to do this
          the hard way.

She puts a boot on the stroller.

                    NICK
          Did you just boot my stroller?

                    HOPPS
          Nicholas Wilde, you are under
          arrest.

                    NICK
          For what? Howting your feewings?

                    HOPPS
          Felony tax evasion.

Nick smile drops a bit.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Yeah. 200 dollars a day... 365 days
          a year... since you were 12, that's
          two decades, so times twenty...
              (calculating)
                    (MORE)
                                                           41.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          ...which is one million four-
          hundred sixty thousand-- I think, I
          mean I am just a dumb bunny, but we
          are good at multiplying-- anyway,
          according to your tax forms...
              (presenting the forms)
          ...you reported let me see here:
          zero. Unfortunately, lying on a
          federal form is a punishable
          offense. Five years jail time.

                    NICK
          Well, it's my word against yours.

Hopps clicks a button on her CARROT PEN, which SPEAKS!

                    NICK (ON CARROT PEN RECORDER) (CONT'D)
          "200 bucks a day, fluff. 365 days a
          year, since I was 12."

                    HOPPS
          Actually, it's your word against
          yours. And if you want this pen,
          you're going to help me find this
          poor missing otter or the only
          place you'll be selling popsicles
          is the prison cafeteria.
              (dramatic smirk)
          It's called a hustle, sweetheart.

Nick is utterly speechless.

                    FINNICK
          She hustled you.
              (rude laugh)
          She hustled you good! You're a cop
          now Nick, you're gonna need one of
          these! Have fun working with the
          fuzz!

THWAP! Finnick slaps his JUNIOR OFFICER STICKER on Nick.

                    HOPPS
          Start talking.

                    NICK
          I don't know where he is.
          I only saw where he went.

                    HOPPS
          Great, let's go.
                                                        42.


                    NICK
          It's not exactly a place for a cute
          little bunny.

                    HOPPS
          Don't call me cute.
              (forceful)
          Get in the car.

                    NICK
          Okay. You're the boss.


INT. THE MYSTIC SPRING OASIS - LATER

The Mystic Spring Oasis is new agey, full of incense, etc. A
meditating HIPPIE YAK sits with flies buzzing around his
head, matching the tone of his ohm. Hopps enters with Nick
and they approach the yak (still with his eyes closed).

                    YAX THE HIPPIE YAK
          Oooooooooohmmmmmmmm.
          Oooooooooooohmmmmmm.

                       HOPPS
          Hi, hello.

The yak continues his incessant chanting.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Um, hello? Hello? HELLO?!

The yak finally shakes out of his trance and notices Hopps.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Hello! My name is--

                    YAX THE HIPPIE YAK
          Ooo, you know, I'm gonna hit the
          pause button right there, `cause
          we're all good on Bunny Scout
          Cookies.

                    HOPPS
          Uh, no... I'm Officer Hopps, ZPD.
          I'm looking for a missing mammal,
          Emmitt Otterton. Right here--
              (shows photo)
          --who may have frequented this
          establishment.

The Yak looks at Hopps' picture. His eyes go wide, as if he's
about to say something really important, and then:
                                                        43.


                    YAX THE HIPPIE YAK
          AH-CHOO!
              (flies go everywhere)
          Yeah, Ol' Emmitt! Haven't seen him
          in a couple weeks. But hey, you
          should talk to his yoga instructor,
          I'd be happy to take you back.

                    HOPPS
          Oh, thank you so much, I'd
          appreciate that more than you can
          imagine. It would be such a big--
              (scream)
          You are naked!

The Yak comes around the counter and he IS naked.

                    YAX THE HIPPIE YAK
          Huh? Oh for sure, we're a
          naturalist club.

                    NICK
          Yeah, in Zootopia anyone can be
          anything. These guys... they be
          naked.

Nick grins, Hopps isn't pleased.

                    YAX THE HIPPIE YAK
          Nangi's just on the other side of
          the pleasure pool.

The Yak opens the doors to a POOL AREA, with tons of naked
animals sunning themselves, playing in the pool, etc. Hopps'
eyes nearly pop out of her head. Nick leans in.

                    NICK
          Does this make you uncomfortable?
          Because, if so, there's no shame in
          calling it quits.

                    HOPPS
          Yes there is.

                    NICK
          Boy, that's the spirit.


EXT. NATURALIST CLUB - COURTYARD - MOMENTS LATER

Nick revels in Hopps' discomfort over the nude animals
everywhere. Lots of nude animals. Yax leads them, oblivious.
                                                        44.


                    YAX THE HIPPIE YAK
          Yeah, some mammals say the
          naturalist life is weird, but you
          know what I say is weird? Clothes
          on animals! Here we go.

Nangi's engaging in a string of fairly evocative yoga poses.

                    YAX THE HIPPIE YAK (CONT'D)
          As you can see, Nangi's an
          elephant, so she'll totally
          remember everything. Hey Nangi,
          these dudes have some questions
          about Emmitt the Otter.

                    NANGI
          Who?

                    YAX
          Uh, Emmitt Otterton? Been coming to
          your yoga class for like 6 years?

                    NANGI
          I have no memory of this beaver.

                    JUDY
          He's an otter actually.

                    YAX
          He was here a couple Wednesdays
          ago. `Member?

                    NANGI
          Nope.

                    YAX
          Yeah, he was wearing a green cable-
          knit sweater vest, and new pair of
          corduroy slacks. Oh, and a paisley
          tie. Sweet Windsor knot. Real
          tight. Remember that Nangi?

                    NANGI
          No.

Nangi doesn't want to be bothered. And she's useless. Yax is
a gold mine, though! Hopps writes down everything he says.

                    YAX
          Yeah, and we both walked him out
          and he got into this big ol' white
          car with a silver trim? Needed a
          tune up. The third cylinder wasn't
          firing. `Member that, Nangi?
                                                           45.


                    NANGI
          Nope.

                    HOPPS
          You didn't happen to catch the
          license plate number, did you?

                    YAX
          Oh, for sure. It was 29THD03.

                    HOPPS
          0, 3... Wow, this is a lot of great
          info, thank you.

                    YAX
          Told ya Nangi has a mind like a
          steel trap. I wish I had a memory
          like an elephant.


EXT. SAHARA SQUARE - MOMENTS LATER

Nick and Hopps emerge.

                    NICK
          Well, I had a ball. You are welcome
          for the clue. And seeing as how any
          moron can run a plate, I will take
          that pen and bid you adieu.

As Nick reaches to take it, Hopps realizes something and
leaves him hanging.

                    HOPPS
          The plate... I can't run a plate...
              (frustrated grunt)
          I'm not in the system yet.

                    NICK
          Give me the pen please.

Hopps gets an idea...

                    HOPPS
              (still withholding pen)
          What was it you said? "Any moron
          can run a plate?" Gosh... if only
          there were a moron around who were
          up to the task...

                    NICK
          Rabbit, I did what you asked, you
          can't keep me on the hook forever.
                                                        46.


                    HOPPS
          Not forever. Why, I only have 36
          hours left to solve this case. So
          can you run the plate or not?

                    NICK
          Actually, I just remembered I have
          a pal at the DMV...


EXT. DMV - LATER

They arrive at the DMV, the "Department of Mammal Vehicles."

                    NICK
          Flash is the fastest guy in there,
          you need something done, he's on
          it.

                    HOPPS
          I hope so, we are really fighting
          the clock and every minute counts.
              (suddenly stops, alarmed)
          Wait. They're all sloths?!

Unfortunately, every mammal working there is a... SLOTH.
INSERT: SLOTH EMPLOYEES taking extraordinary amounts of time
to do the simplest of tasks-- stapling, stamping, etc.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          You said this was going to be
          quick!

                    NICK
              (faux innocence)
          What? Are you saying that because
          he's a sloth, he can't be fast? I
          thought in Zootopia anyone could be
          anything.

Nick smiles. Hopps doesn't. They head to Flash's station.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Flash, Flash, hundred yard dash!
          Buddy, it's nice to see ya.

Flash doesn't respond. Beat.

                     FLASH
          Nice to...
               (beat) (beat)
          see you...
               (beat) (beat)
          too.
                                                           47.


Hopps looks like she's going to die.

                      NICK
           Hey Flash, I'd love ya to meet my
           friend-- uh, darlin' I've forgotten
           your name.

                     HOPPS
               (fake smile, to Nick)
           Officer Judy Hopps, ZPD.
               (shows badge)
           How are ya?

Flash doesn't respond... then...

                     FLASH
           I am... doing... just...

                        HOPPS
           Fine?

                     FLASH
           ...as well... as... I can... be.
           What...

                     NICK
               (to an impatient Hopps)
           Hang in there.

                     FLASH
           ...can I... do...

                     HOPPS
           Well, I was hoping you could run a
           plate--

                        FLASH
           For you...

                     HOPPS
           Well, I was hoping you could--

                        FLASH
           ...today.

Hopps pauses-- cautiously optimistic that he's finished.

                      HOPPS
           Well, I was hoping you could run a
           plate for us. We are in a really
           big hurry.

Beat.   Beat.
                                            48.


                      FLASH
          Sure.    What's the... plate...

                       HOPPS
          2, 9, T--

                       FLASH
          ...Number?

Hopps takes a breath.

                       HOPPS
          29THD03.

                    FLASH
              (several beats)
          2... 9...

                       HOPPS
          THD03.

                       FLASH
          T.

                       HOPPS
          HD03.

                       FLASH
          H.

                       HOPPS
          D03.

                       FLASH
          D.

                    HOPPS
          Mmhmm. 0, 3.

                       FLASH
          0.

                       HOPPS
          3!

Flash is just about to say three, but...

                    NICK
          Hey Flash, wanna hear a joke?

                       HOPPS
          No!
                                                         49.


                      FLASH
          Sure.

                    NICK
          What do you call a three humped
          camel?

                     FLASH
          I don't... know...
              (beat)
          What... do... you call... a...

                    HOPPS
          Three humped camel.

                    FLASH
          Three humped... camel?

                      NICK
          Pregnant.

Nick laughs at his own joke. Flash doesn't react, then
finally raises his head with a smile and....

                    FLASH
          Ha... ha... ha... ha...

                    HOPPS
          Ha, ha, yes very funny, very funny,
          can we please just focus on the
          task--

Flash slowly reaches over to the sloth next to him.

                    FLASH
          Hey... Priscilla...

                      HOPPS
          Oh no!

                    PRISCILLA
          Yes... Flash?

                    FLASH
          What... do...

                      HOPPS
          No!

                    FLASH
          You call... a...
                                                          50.


                    HOPPS
          A three humped camel? Pregnant!
          Okay, great, we got it, please just-
          -

                    FLASH
          Three... humped...

                    HOPPS
          Aggggggghhhhhhh--


INT. DMV - LATER

A slow DOT-MATRIX printer spits out the address for CAR
LICENSE PLATE NUMBER: 29THD03.

                       FLASH
          Here...

                    HOPPS
          Yeah, yeah, yeah... thank you!

                       FLASH
          You... go.

                    HOPPS
              (frantically reads)
          29THD03-- it's registered to...
          Tundratown Limo Service? A limo
          took Otterton, and the limo's in
          Tundratown-- it's in Tundratown!

                    NICK
          Way to hustle, bud. I love ya. I
          owe ya.

                    HOPPS
          Hurry, we gotta beat the rush hour
          and--


EXT. DMV - CONTINUOUS

They go outside. It's night.

                    HOPPS
          IT'S NIGHT?!


EXT. SNOWY LOT - MOMENTS LATER

Nick and Hopps reach LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISE CAR SERVICE. Hopps
tries to open the lock.
                                                           51.


                    HOPPS
          Closed. Great.

                    NICK
          Mm. And I will betcha you don't
          have a warrant to get in. Hm? Darn
          it. It's a bummer.

There's a big gated parking lot which is chained shut... but
they can see a few limos parking inside, covered in snow.

                    HOPPS
          You wasted the day on purpose.

                    NICK
          Madam, I have a fake badge. I would
          never impede your pretend
          investigation.

                    HOPPS
          It's not a pretend investigation!
          Look, see--
              (showing picture of
               Otterton)
          See him? This otter is missing.

                    NICK
          Well then they should have gotten a
          real cop to find him.

                    HOPPS
          What is your problem? Does seeing
          me fail somehow make you feel
          better about your own sad,
          miserable life?

Nick considers this for a moment.

                     NICK
          It does. One hundred percent.
              (then)
          Now... since you're sans warrant, I
          guess we're done?

Hopps considers this and sighs, defeated.

                    HOPPS
          Fine. We are done. Here's your pen.

Hopps then casually throws it over the fence behind her.

                       NICK
          Hey!
                 (staring at the pen)
                       (MORE)
                                                          52.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          First off, you throw like a bunny,
          second, you're a very sore loser.
              (starts to climb)
          See ya later, Officer Fluff, so sad
          this is over, I wish I could've
          helped more.

Nick jumps down onto the other side, but just as he reaches
for the pen, Hopps is suddenly right there and snatches it.

                    HOPPS
          The thing is, you don't need a
          warrant if you have probable cause,
          and I'm pretty sure I saw a shifty
          low-life climbing the fence, so
          you're helping plenty. Come on.

Hopps cheerfully heads off. Nick watches her, not quite
smiling, but he's starting to respect his opponent.


EXT. PARKING LOT - MOMENTS LATER

Hopps wipes snow off a back bumper: LICENSE PLATE 29THD03.

                    HOPPS
          29THD03... this is it.


INT. REFRIGOUSINE - MOMENTS LATER

They open the big door, which looks like it belongs on a
refrigerator. As they snoop around, Hopps uses tweezers to
pick up a clump of fur.

                    HOPPS
          Polar bear fur.

                     NICK
              (opening glove box)
          OH MY GOD!

                    HOPPS
          What? What?!

Hopps looks up, only to see Nick holding some JERRY VOLE CDs.

                    NICK
          The Velvety Pipes of Jerry Vole!
          But on CD? Who still uses CDs?

As Hopps rolls her eyes and goes back to collecting clues,
Nick lowers the back partition and his eyes go wide.
                                                         53.


                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Carrots...? If your otter was
          here... he had a very bad day.

Hopps' flashlight reveals CLAW MARKS covering the back seat.

                    HOPPS
          Those are... claw marks. You ever
          seen anything like this?

                    NICK
          No.

Through the fog on the floor Hopps spots a wallet.

                    HOPPS
          Oh, wait. Look.

They slink back into the back seat. Hopps opens up the wallet
to find a drivers license for Mr. Otterton.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          This is him. Emmitt Otterton. He
          was definitely here. What do you
          think happened?

Nick spots a cocktail glass... it's etched with a "B."

                    NICK
          Well, now wait a minute...
              (then, suspicious)
          Polar bear fur... Rat Pack music...
          fancy cup...
              (suddenly terrified)
          I know whose car this is. We gotta
          go!

                    HOPPS
          Why? Whose car is it?

Nick tries to put everything back the way he found it.

                    NICK
          The most feared crime boss in
          Tundratown. They call him Mr. Big
          and he does not like me, so we
          gotta go!

                    HOPPS
          I'm not leaving, this is a crime
          scene.
                                                          54.


                    NICK
          Well, it's gonna be an even bigger
          crime scene if Mr. Big finds me
          here, so we're leaving right now!

Nick ushers Hopps to the door, but opens it to find two big
POLAR BEARS.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
              (faux excitement)
          Raymond! And, is that Kevin?! Long
          time no see. And speaking of no
          see, how about you forget you saw
          me? Huh? For old time's sake?

The polar bears grab Nick and Hopps by their throats...

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          That's a no.

...and yank them off screen.


INT. POLAR BEAR CAR - MOMENTS LATER

VROOM! A car whizzes by. Inside, Nick and Hopps sit nervously
in the back seat, sandwiched between the polar bears-- one of
whom casually scrolls through Zoogle Photos on his phone.

                    HOPPS
          What did you do that made Mr. Big
          so mad at you?

                    NICK
              (sotto)
          I uh, I may have sold him a very
          expensive wool rug... that was made
          from the fur of a... skunk's butt.

                    HOPPS
              (pissed at Nick)
          Oh, sweet cheese and crackers.

Pull out to reveal the car passing through the security gate
of a residential compound. A POLAR BEAR GUARD lets them in.


INT. MR. BIG'S RESIDENCE - MOMENTS LATER

Nick and Hopps are shoved into a room that's right out of The
Godfather. A POLAR BEAR enters...
                                                        55.


                    HOPPS
              (sotto)
          Is that Mr. Big?

                      NICK
                (sotto)
          No.

Now an even BIGGER POLAR BEAR enters...

                    HOPPS
          What about him? Is that him?

                      NICK
                (sotto, frustrated)
          No.

...and then another. The BIGGEST POLAR BEAR yet...

                    HOPPS
          That's gotta be him.

                    NICK
          Stop talking stop talking stop
          talking--

The huge polar bear growls at Nick, then reveals a tiny chair
upon which sits... a TEENY, TINY ARCTIC SHREW... this is MR.
BIG. He sounds like Marlon Brando sped up to 78 rpm.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Mr. Big, sir, this is a simple
          misunder-

Mr. Big holds out a TINY FINGER for NICK to KISS HIS RING.
Nick painstakingly does so.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          This is a simple misunderstanding.

Mr. Big motions for Nick to shut up.

                    MR. BIG
          You come here unannounced... on the
          day my daughter is to be married?

                    NICK
          Well actually we were brought here
          against our will, so...
              (Mr. Big is not impressed)
          Point is, I did not know it was
          your car, and I certainly did not
          know about your daughter's wedding.
                                                        56.


                    MR. BIG
          I trusted you, Nicky... I welcomed
          you into my home... we broke bread
          together... Gram-mama made you her
          cannoli. And how did you repay my
          generosity? With a rug... made from
          the butt of a skunk. A skunk butt
          rug. You disrespected me. You
          disrespected my gram-mama who I
          buried in that skunk butt rug. I
          told you never to show your face
          here again, but here you are,
          snooping around with this...
              (re. Hopps)
          What are you, a performer? What's
          with the costume?

                    HOPPS
          Sir, I am a c--

                    NICK
          Mime! She is a mime. This mime,
          cannot speak. You can't speak if
          you're a mime.

                    HOPPS
          No. I am a cop. And I'm on the
          Emmitt Otterton case, and my
          evidence puts him in your car, so
          intimidate me all you want, I'm
          going to find out what you did to
          that otter if it's the last thing I
          do.

Mr. Big considers this and makes that little grunt.

                    MR. BIG
          Then I have only one request: say
          hello to Gram-mama. Ice `em!

The Polar Bears snatch Nick and Hopps.

                    NICK
          Whoa-- I didn't see nothing-- I'm
          not saying nothing--

                    MR. BIG
          And you never will--

The polar bears open a hidden door on the floor, revealing an
icy pool beneath.
                                                         57.


                    NICK
          Please! No no no! If you're mad at
          me about the rug I've got more
          rugs!

Nick and Hopps are about to be dumped in, when--

                     FRU FRU SHREW
          Oh, Daddy, it's time for our dance.
              (sees them trying to kill
               Nick)
          What did we say? No icing anyone at
          my wedding!

                    MR. BIG
          I have to, baby. Daddy has to.
              (to Thugs)
          Ice `em.

Nick and Hopps scream and--

                    FRU FRU SHREW
          Wait. WAIT! She's the bunny that
          saved my life yesterday. From that
          giant donut.

                    MR. BIG
          This bunny?

                      FRU FRU SHREW
          Yeah. Hi!

                      HOPPS
          Hi.
              (warm, whisper)
          I love your dress.

                    FRU FRU SHREW
          Aw, thank you.

Mr. Big motions for the Polar Bears to put Hopps down.

                    MR. BIG
          Put `em down.
              (then, to Hopps)
          You have done me a great service.
          I will help you find the otter. I
          will take your kindness... and pay
          it forward.

Hopps and Mr. Big kiss on the cheeks. Nick stares at them...
What is happening?
                                                        58.


INT. WEDDING RECEPTION - A LITTLE LATER

A lavish celebration full of arctic animals dancing. We find
Nick and Hopps at the head table, next to Mr. Big. They all
eat TINY pieces of WEDDING CAKE.

                    MR. BIG
          Otterton is my florist. He's like a
          part of the family. He had
          something important he wanted to
          discuss. That's why I sent that car
          to pick him up. But he never
          arrived.

                    HOPPS
          Because he was attacked.

                    MR. BIG
          No... he attacked.

                      HOPPS
          Otterton?

                    MR. BIG
          Otterton. He went crazy. Ripped up
          the car, scared my driver half to
          death and disappeared into the
          night.

                    HOPPS
          He's a sweet little otter.

                    MR. BIG
          My child, we may be evolved... but
          deep down we are still animals.

Nick and Hopps trade a worried glance. OVER THE FOLLOWING WE
CROSS-DISSOLVE TO NICK AND HOPPS WALKING IN THE RAINFOREST:

                    MR. BIG (V.O.)(CONT'D)
          You want to find Otterton... talk
          to the driver of the car. His
          name's Manchas, lives in the
          Rainforest District. Only he can
          tell you more.


EXT. "RAINFOREST DISTRICT" - LATER THAT NIGHT

Nick and Hopps make their way across a mossy rope bridge high
above the forest floor. It leads to a moss-covered apartment.
                                                        59.


EXT. "THE CANOPY" - MOMENTS LATER

At the door of the DRIVER'S APARTMENT, they ring the bell.

                    HOPPS
          Mr. Manchas? Judy Hopps, ZPD. We
          just want to know what happened to
          Emmitt Otterton.

Beat. The door creaks open.

                    MANCHAS (MUFFLED INSIDE)
          You should be asking... what
          happened to me.

The door opens to the chain, revealing... MANCHAS is... a
HUGE JAGUAR-- but he's been badly beaten up. He has a black
eye, and a scratches. Nick and Hopps are taken aback.

                    NICK
          Whoa. A teensy otter... did that?

                    HOPPS
          What... happened?

Off Manchas's look, we

                                                  CUT TO:


A FLASHBACK --

Manchas is driving when he's attacked from the back seat.

                    MANCHAS (THROUGH DOOR GAP)
          He was an animal... down on all
          fours... he was a savage.

The car spins out. Emmitt growls at Manchas then runs off.

                                                 BACK TO:


THE CANOPY --

                    MANCHAS
              (haunted)
          There was no warning, he just kept
          yelling about the "night howlers."
          Over and over, "the night
          howlers..."

Nick and Hopps share a subtle look-- they have no idea what
"night howlers" are.
                                                           60.


                    NICK
          Oh. So you know about the night
          howlers too? Good, good, good.
          Because the night howlers are
          exactly what we are here to talk
          about.
              (to Judy)
          Right?

                    HOPPS
          Yep. So, uh, you just open the door
          and tell us what you know and we
          will tell you what we know. Okay?

                    MANCHAS
              (considering)
          Okay.

Manchas closes the door and starts to unlock a series of
deadbolts. Judy gives Nick an impressed look.

                    HOPPS
          Clever fox.

There's a commotion inside, followed by a scream.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Mr. Manchas?

The door creaks open just an inch. Nick and Hopps seem
startled... Hopps slowly pushes the door open, revealing
Manchas in the center of the room, hunched over and grunting.

                      NICK
          Buddy?

                    HOPPS
          Are you... okay?

Hopps looks at Manchas.

RAAAGH!!! Manchas turns, right at them. His eyes are dilated,
he's turned savage! He's poised to pounce on Nick and Hopps.

                      HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Run. RUN!

The Jaguar tears after them, he's deranged, primal. Nick and
Hopps run! The jaguar is closing in.

                    NICK
          What is wrong with him?!
                                                           61.


                    HOPPS
          I don't know!!

Nick and Hopps run across the bridge. Manchas closes in.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Jump!

They jump off the bridge to a lower branch. They duck into a
hollow log and Manchas follows them.

                     HOPPS (CONT'D)
              (to Nick)
          Head down!

Hopps frantically picks up her police radio.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Officer Hopps to dispatch!


INT. POLICE STATION - DISPATCH - SAME

We find Clawhauser showing a handcuffed PERP a video on his
phone of pop star Gazelle singing and dancing. A RED LIGHT
blinks on the desk phone, but Clawhauser ignores it.

                    CLAWHAUSER
          Are you familiar with Gazelle?
          Greatest singer of our lifetime--
          angel with horns-- okay, hold on,
          keep watching. Who's that beside
          her? Who is it?

Reveal: Clawhauser is dancing on stage with Gazelle.

                    GAZELLE (ON PHONE)
          Wow, you are one hot dancer...
              (digitized robo-voice)
          ...BENJAMIN CLAWHAUSER.

                    CLAWHAUSER
              (joyous laughter)
          It's me! Did you think it was real?
          It looks so real! It's not. It's
          just a new app.
              (finally notices ringing
               phone)
          Hold on a second--

Clawhauser clicks the speaker button and--

                    HOPPS (V.O.)
          CLAWHAUSER!
                    Blue Rev. (mm/dd/yy)                  62.


EXT. THE CANOPY - SAME

RAAGH! Manchas takes a swipe at Nick.

                    HOPPS
          Clawhauser, listen to me! We have a
          10-91! Jaguar gone savage! Vine and
          Tu-junja!

                    NICK
          It's Tujunga!

As they emerge from the log, Hopps slips, dropping her radio.

                    CLAWHAUSER (ON RADIO)
          Okay, we're sending back up! Hopps?
          HOPPS?!

Nick and Hopps run, sliding around a corner. Ahead is a
gondola station.

                    HOPPS
          There! Head to the skytrams!

They run to the gondolas. Hopps darts out of Manchas' way,
but slips and is headed off the platform when she manages to
grab on-- dangling from the edge. Nick searches for her...

                    NICK
          Get in! Carrots? Carrots!

He tries to hold on to the gondola for Hopps, who is
struggling to pull herself back onto the platform.

                    HOPPS
          Go!

As the gondola pulls away, Nick tries to stop it to no avail.

                    NICK
          No, no, no!

Nick backs up... the jaguar stalks him.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Buddy, one predator to another--                      *

The jaguar charges, but before it gets Nick-- clank! It's       *
yanked back in place. We see a HANDCUFF on its back paw,
attached to a metal post. Hopps cuffed him!
                                                        63.


                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Now, I can tell you're a little
          tense, so I'm just gonna give you a
          little personal space--

The jaguar thrashes, knocking Nick and Hopps over the edge.
Hopps barely grabs a vine, but struggles to hold Nick in the
other hand. As Manchas growls at them from above, Nick looks
at the abyss below. Hopps looks around, her mind racing.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Rabbit, whatever you do, do not let
          go!

                    HOPPS
          I'm gonna let go!

                    NICK
          No, you what? No, I said-- listen--
          noooo!

                       HOPPS
          One, two--

Hopps lets go, swinging them over to a netting of vines, kind
of on top of each other. They can't believe they're alive.
They look at each other, stunned, relieved...

                    NICK
          Carrots. You saved my life.

                    HOPPS
          Well. That's what we do at the
          ZP...
              (the branch snaps)
          Deeeeeeeeeeeee.....

Nick and Hopps plummet. They are about to hit the ground, but
a vine attached to their legs stops them right before impact.

Woo! A convoy of police arrive, screeching in front of them.
Out steps... Bogo. Hopps smiles, the cavalry has arrived.

                    BOGO
          Well, this should be good.


MOMENTS LATER --

Hopps leads the cops up to the canopy, full of confidence.

                    HOPPS
          I thought this was just a missing
          mammal case, but it's way bigger.
                    (MORE)
                                                        64.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Mr. Otterton did not just
          disappear. I believe he and this
          jaguar, they... went savage, Sir.

                    BOGO
              (scoffing)
          Savage? This isn't the Stone Age,
          Hopps. Animals don't go savage.

                    HOPPS
          I thought so too, `til I saw this:

Hopps pulls back some leaves to reveal: the jaguar is gone.
There is no sign of him... or his handcuffs. It's like it
never happened. Hopps' eyes go wide.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          What? He was right here...

                    BOGO
              (not buying it)
          The "savage" jaguar.

                     HOPPS
          Sir, I know what I saw-- he almost
          killed us.

                    BOGO
          Or maybe any aggressive predator
          looks savage to you rabbits.
              (calls out, to cops)
          Let's go.

                    HOPPS
          Wait-- Sir, I'm not the only one
          who saw him!
              (to Nick)
          Nick!

Hopps turns to Nick, but before he can explain:

                     BOGO
               (incredulous)
          You think I'm going to believe a
          fox?

                     HOPPS
          Well he was a key witness and I
          enlisted--

                    BOGO
              (the last straw)
          Two days to find the otter...
                    (MORE)
                                                           65.

                    BOGO (CONT'D)
          or you quit... that was the deal.
          Badge.

Bogo extends his arm, waiting for Hopps to hand it over.

                    HOPPS
          But, Sir, we...

                    BOGO
          Badge.

Hopps looks at Bogo, then looks at her badge, she's about to
reach for it, when...

                    NICK (O.S.)
          Uh, no.

Bogo stops, and glares at Nick.

                    BOGO
          What did you say, fox?

                    NICK
          Sorry, what I said was, "no." She
          will not be giving you that badge.
          Look, you gave her a clown vest and
          a three-wheel joke-mobile and two
          days to solve a case you guys
          haven't cracked in two weeks? Yeah,
          no wonder she needed to get help
          from a fox, none of you guys were
          gonna help her, were you?

Hopps looks at Nick, stunned he's sticking up for her.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Here's the thing Chief, you gave
          her the 48 hours, so technically we
          still have 10 left to find our Mr.
          Otterton... and that's exactly what
          we're gonna do, so if you'll excuse
          us... we have a very big lead to
          follow and a case to crack. Good
          day.

Nick guides Hopps to a PASSING GONDOLA, motioning her in.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Officer Hopps?

The gondola pulls away, leaving Bogo and the rest of the
police watching, flabbergasted.
                                                           66.


INT./EXT. GONDOLA - CONTINUOUS

Hopps and Nick both stare straight ahead.

                       HOPPS
          Thank you.

                    NICK
          Never let `em see that they get to
          you.

Hopps looks at Nick, a little surprised. Nick looks out.

                    HOPPS
          So, things do get to you...

                    NICK
          No... I mean, not anymore. But I
          was small and emotionally
          unbalanced like you once.

                       HOPPS
          Har-har.

                    NICK
              (retreating into the
               memory)
          No, it's true. I think was 8, or
          maybe 9, and all I wanted to do was
          join the Junior Ranger Scouts.

                                                DISSOLVE TO:


INT. YOUNG NICK'S BEDROOM - DUSK (FLASHBACK)

YOUNG NICK, tiny and cherubic, looks in the mirror. We see
MOTHER's paws tying the scout kerchief around his neck.

                    NICK (V.O.)
          ...so, my mom scraped together
          enough money to buy me a brand new
          uniform because, by God, I was
          gonna fit in.


EXT. SCOUT BUILDING - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

Young Nick bounds down the sidewalk and up the stairs.

                    NICK (V.O.)
          Even if I was the only predator in
          the troop--
                                                        67.


INT. SCOUT MEETING - MOMENTS LATER (FLASHBACK)

Young Nick enters a church basement, spots a GROUP OF PREY
KIDS, all in scout uniforms. They wave him over.

                    NICK (V.O.)(CONT'D)
          ...the only fox.

                    MEAN KID ANIMAL (O.S.)
          Okay, Nick!

                    NICK (V.O.)
          I was gonna be part of a pack.

                    MEAN KID ANIMAL
          Ready for initiation?

                    YOUNG NICK
          Yeah! Pretty much born ready.

They high five Nick. It looks promising and fun.

                    NICK (V.O.)
          I was so proud.

Suddenly, a BIG KID turns off the lights. Other KIDS switch
on FLASHLIGHTS, shining them on Nick like gestapo spotlights.

                    MEAN KID ANIMAL
          Okay. Now raise your right hand and
          deliver the oath.

                    YOUNG NICK
          I, Nicholas Wilde, promise to be
          brave, loyal, helpful, and
          trustworthy.

                    MEAN KID ANIMAL
          Even though you're a fox?

                    YOUNG NICK
          What?

Then, a bunch of KID ANIMALS tackle Nick. Soon, all of the
animals pile on, kicking and shoving him.

                    YOUNG NICK (CONT'D)
          No! What did I do wrong, you guys?!
          No! Please tell me, what did I do
          wrong?!

With Nick pinned, the primary mean kid straddles him. Someone
hands him a MUZZLE. The mean kid snaps it on Nick's snout.
                                                        68.


                    YOUNG NICK (CONT'D)
              (muzzled)
          What did I do?!

                    MEAN KID ANIMAL
          If you thought we would ever trust
          a fox without a muzzle, you're even
          dumber than you look.

Nick breaks free from the kids. Scrambles away from them in
fright. As they laugh, he races out the door.

                    MEAN KID ANIMAL (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          Aw, is he gonna cry?

Once out sight, Nick panics as he struggles to remove the
muzzle. It won't come off. Finally-- painfully-- he pulls it
off and throws it to the ground. He collapses, weeping.


THE GONDOLA --

                    NICK
          I learned two things that day. One,
          I was never gonna let anyone see
          that they got to me.

Hopps looks at Nick, who avoids eye contact.

                    HOPPS
          ...And two?

                    NICK
          If the world's only gonna see a fox
          as shifty and untrustworthy,
          there's no point in trying to be
          anything else.

                    HOPPS
          Nick, you are so much more than
          that...

Hopps touches Nick's arm as the gondola pierces the clouds.
The city at dawn comes into view. It's gotten too real for
Nick. He abruptly changes the subject.

                    NICK
          Boy, look at that traffic down
          there.
              (putting on radio voice)
          How about we go out to Chuck in
          Traffic Central-- Chuck, how are
          things looking on the Jam Cams?
                                                        69.


                    HOPPS
          Nick, I'm glad you told me...

                    NICK
              (lightbulb moment!)
          The Jam Cams...!

                    HOPPS
          Seriously, it's okay...

                    NICK
          No-n-shh-shush! There are traffic
          cameras everywhere. All over the
          canopy. Whatever happened to that
          jaguar--

                    HOPPS
          The traffic cams would have caught
          it!

                    NICK
          Bingo!

Hopps gives him a chuck on the arm, impressed.

                    HOPPS
          Pretty sneaky, Slick.

                    NICK
          However. If you didn't have access
          to the system before, I doubt Chief
          Buffalo Butt is gonna let you into
          it now.

                    HOPPS
              (beat, then)
          No... But I have a friend at City
          Hall who might.


INT. CITY HALL - LATER THAT MORNING

We find BELLWETHER trying to balance a stack of binders while
struggling to keep pace with Mayor Lionheart, who is walking
quickly in front of her.

                     BELLWETHER
          Sir? If we could just review these
          very important--
               (almost drops binders)
          Sir?

She almost steps on a LITTLE MOUSE LADY.
                                                          70.


                    BELLWETHER (CONT'D)
          Ooo, I'm so sorry... sir?!

                     LIONHEART
          Okay. I heard you, Bellwether. Just
          take care of it!
              (setting another binder
               atop her stack)
          Please. And clear my afternoon, I'm
          going out.

                    BELLWETHER
          No, no! But, sir, you do have a
          meeting with Herds and Grazing...
          sir, if I could just--

He continues through a door. Bellwether tries to follow, but
the door shuts on her, spilling the binders to the floor.

                    BELLWETHER (CONT'D)
          Oh, mutton chops.

As Bellwether picks up her mess, Hopps and Nick appear.

                     HOPPS
          Assistant Mayor Bellwether? We need
          your help.


INT. BELLWETHER'S OFFICE - LATER

We're in Bellwether's cramped little office. Nick and Hopps
hover over her while she sits at her computer.

                    HOPPS
          We just need to get into the
          traffic cam database.

Nick subtly touches Bellwether's wool puff.

                     NICK
              (mouths, to Hopps)
          So fluffy!

                    HOPPS
          Hey!

                    NICK
          Sheep never let me this close.

                    HOPPS
          You can't just touch a sheep's
          wool...
                                                            71.


             NICK                          HOPPS (CONT'D)
It's like cotton candy.            Stop it!

Judy swats Nick, but accidentally hits Bellwether's puff.

                      BELLWETHER
          Where to?

                    HOPPS
          Rainforest District, Vine and
          Tujunga.

ANGLE ON the computer screen.

                    BELLWETHER
          There! Traffic cams for the whole
          city. This is so exciting,
          actually. Well, you know, I never
          get to do anything this important.

                    HOPPS
          But you're the Assistant Mayor of
          Zootopia.

                    BELLWETHER
          Oh, I'm more of a glorified
          secretary. I think Mayor Lionheart
          just wanted the sheep vote...
              (then, cheerily)
          But he did give me that nice mug.

She motions to a mug that reads World's Greatest Dad
Assistant Mayor.

                    BELLWETHER (CONT'D)
          Feels good to be appreciated.

                    LIONHEART (INTERCOM)
          Smellwether?!

Bellwether cringes.

                    BELLWETHER
          That's a fun little name he likes
          to use. I called him Lionfart once.
          He did not care for that, let me
          tell you. It was not a good day for
          me.
              (pressing intercom button)
          Yes, sir?

                    LIONHEART (INTERCOM)
          I thought you were going to cancel
          my afternoon?!
                                                          72.


                    BELLWETHER
          Oh, dear. I better go --
              (to Hopps, while leaving)
          Let me know what you find. It was
          really nice for me to be--

                    LIONHEART (INTERCOM)
          While we're young, Smellwether!

Bellwether finally opens her big heavy door and leaves.

                    NICK
          You think when she goes to sleep
          she counts herself?

                    HOPPS
          Shush. Okay, traffic cams...
              (looking at computer)
          Tujunga, Tujunga... we're in.

Nick and Hopps watch the footage from the night before. We
can see the jaguar going nuts. Then a BLACK VAN skids up, and
some WOLVES hop out.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Who are these guys?

                    NICK
          Timberwolves. Look at these
          dumdums.

The Wolves suddenly capture the jaguar with a net. Judy
GASPS, shocked. Nick is unfazed.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Betcha a nickel one of em's gonna
          howl.

The wolves howl...

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          And there it is. What is it with
          wolves and the howling? It's like--

                    HOPPS
              (light-bulb moment)
          Howlers! Night howlers! That's what
          Manchas was afraid of... wolves!
          The wolves are the night howlers.
          If they took Manchas...

                    NICK
          ...I bet they took Otterton too.
                                                        73.


                     HOPPS
          All we gotta do is find out where
          they went.

She clicks the monitor... but as the wolves drive off, they
disappear through a tunnel and don't come out the other side.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Wait. Where'd they go?

                    NICK
          You know, if I wanted to avoid
          surveillance because I was doing
          something illegal-- which I never
          have-- I would use the maintenance
          tunnel 6B... which would put them
          out...

He clicks on another camera. Nothing... then... the wolves
emerge in the van.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          ...right there.

Hopps looks at Nick, impressed.

                    HOPPS
          Well, look at you, Junior
          Detective. You know, I think you'd
          actually make a pretty good cop.

                    NICK
          How dare you.

Hopps goes back to clicking... we track the wolves through
alleys and back roads.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Acacia alley... Ficus underpass...
          South Canyon...

                    HOPPS
          They're heading out of town...
          Where does that road go?


EXT. CLIFFSIDE ASYLUM - GOLDEN HOUR

The imposing CLIFFSIDE ASYLUM sits on the edge of a
waterfall. Nick and Hopps, hidden on the side of the road,
spy from a hundred yards away.

Nick and Hopps sneak up to the guard gate, where TWO WOLVES
are stationed.
                                                           74.


Using elaborate hand signals, Nick motions he's going to
sneak past first. He gets around the gate, but as he gets
close... a wolf sniffs the air... he's onto him.

Nick reaches around and grabs a piece of wood to use as a
weapon. The wolf moves toward Nick... but before he reaches
him... Ooooooooooo!

A distant howl grabs his attention. It's Hopps, cupping her
mouth to make the howl sound distant. The wolf hears it and
can't help but howl as well. Another guard approaches.

                    WOLF GUARD
          Gary, quit it, you're gonna start a
          howl.

                    GARY THE WOLF GUARD
          I didn't start it.
              (more howling off-screen)
          Oooooooo!

                    WOLF GUARD
          Oooooooooo!

More wolves start to howl. Nick looks at Hopps, impressed.

                     HOPPS
          Come on!

Nick and Hopps use the distraction to jump the fence and
sneak into the complex.

                    NICK
          You are a clever bunny.

Above, they notice a drainage pipe leading into the building.


INT. CLIFFSIDE ASYLUM - LARGE ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Nick and Hopps emerge from the drain pipe into the creepy
asylum. They're in a large, cavernous room, full of old
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT. It's like a combination of an old hospital
and a turn-of-the-century zoo.

                    HOPPS
          It looks like this was a hospital.

Judy shines her light down a corridor, at the end of which is
a metal door with a blue light shining within. Nick nears the
door, about to open it... the tension builds and then...
                                                         75.


                     NICK
               (turns to Hopps)
          You know, after you, you're the
          cop.


INT. CLIFFSIDE ASYLUM - MEDICAL WARD - MOMENTS LATER

Hopps cautiously pushes the door open to reveal: a room with
modern medical equipment. Nick pops up behind her.

                    NICK
          Okay. All clear.

Hopps rolls her eyes and cautiously enters and looks around.

                    HOPPS
          All this equipment is brand new...

                    NICK (O.S.)
          Carrots...?

Nick points to the ground, which is scuffed with CLAW MARKS.

                    HOPPS
          Claw marks...

                    NICK
          Yeah. Huge, huge, claw marks. I
          mean, what kind of--

RAAGH! A SAVAGE TIGER emerges behind the glass of a nearby
cage, startling Nick and sending him running to Hopps.

Hopps swivels her flashlight to reveal: dozens of reflective
eyes. Nick and Hopps make their way down a long corridor of
cages, looking for the jaguar.

                    HOPPS
          Mr. Manchas.

He's still feral, on all fours and pacing in a cell. They
continue on, passing three, four, five, cages until finally,
in the last cage: a FERAL OTTER. It's EMMITT OTTERTON.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          It's him. We found our otter.
              (to the otter, gently)
          Mr. Otterton, my name is Officer
          Judy Hopps. Your wife sent me to
          find you. We're gonna get you out
          of here now.

Otterton screeches at her and lunges toward the glass.
                                                         76.


                    NICK
          Or not. Guess he's in no rush to
          get home to the Missus.

Hopps looks back down the corridor of cells, counting.

                    HOPPS
          ...11, 12, 13, 14. Not including
          Manchas it's 14...
              (lightbulb)
          Chief Bogo handed out 14 Missing
          Mammal files... They're all here.
          All the missing mammals are right
          here.

Before she can respond-- CLICK! A door starts to open, Nick
and Hopps retreat, stuck next to a DARK CELL.

                    LIONHEART (O.S.)
          Enough! I don't want excuses,
          Doctor, I want answers.

Reveal: Mayor Lionheart berating the BADGER DOCTOR by his
side. He looks serious, intense, tired.

                    BADGER DOCTOR
          Mayor Lionheart, please, we're
          doing everything we can.

Hopps whips out her phone, starts recording.

                    LIONHEART
          Really? Cuz I got a dozen and a
          half animals here who've gone off
          the rails crazy-- and you can't
          tell me why. Now, I'd call that
          awfully far from doing everything.

                    BADGER DOCTOR
          Sir, it may be time to consider
          their biology.

                    LIONHEART
          What? What do you mean biology?

                    BADGER DOCTOR
          The only animals going savage are
          predators. We cannot keep it a
          secret. We need to come forward.
                                                           77.


                    LIONHEART
          Hmm... Great idea. Tell the public.
          And how do you think they're gonna
          feel about their mayor, who is a
          lion?! I'll be ruined!

                    BADGER DOCTOR
          Well, what does Chief Bogo say?

                    LIONHEART
          Chief Bogo doesn't know. And we are
          going to keep it that way.

Beep-beep-beep-- Hopps' parents call in. She frantically
tries to silence her phone.

                    LIONHEART (CONT'D)
          Someone's here!

                    BADGER DOCTOR
          Sir, you need to go, now!
              (calls out)
          Security! Sweep the area!

AN ALARM SOUNDS. The door to the cell Hopps and Nick are in
triggers shut. They notice WOLVES approaching.

                    NICK
          Great! We're dead. We're dead.
          That's it. I'm dead. You're dead.
          Everybody's dead.

This gives Hopps an idea. She looks at the HUGE TOILET.

                    HOPPS
          Can you swim?

                    NICK
          What? Can I swim? Yes, I can swim.
          Why?

The Wolves storm in, searching for the intruders... and see
the swirling water of a toilet disappearing down the drain.

Hopps and Nick fly through the water slide like tubes of the
sewer system, cascading over a waterfall. Both scream. They
land in the river below. Nick pop up first. He looks
desperately for Judy.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Carrots?! Hopps?! Judy?!

She emerges, gasping for breath, holding up the bagged phone.
                                                        78.


                    HOPPS
          We gotta tell Bogo!


INT. BOGO'S OFFICE - DAY

CLOSE ON BOGO'S PHONE: Gazelle and Bogo dance on stage. It's
the same app Clawhauser used earlier.

                    GAZELLE (ON PHONE)
          Wow, you are one hot dancer...
              (robo-voice)
          ...CHIEF BOGO.

Bogo is dancing along when, suddenly, Clawhauser bursts in.

                    CLAWHAUSER
          Chief Bogo!

                    BOGO
              (guilty)
          Not now!

                    CLAWHAUSER
          Wait, is that Gazelle?

                      BOGO
                (struggling to silence his
                 phone)
          No!

                    GAZELLE (ON PHONE)
          I am Gazelle, and you are one hot
          dancer.

                    CLAWHAUSER
          You have the app too?!
              (ecstatic)
          Oh, jeeeeez!

                    BOGO
          Clawhauser, can't you see I'm
          working on the missing mammal
          cases?!

                    CLAWHAUSER
          Oh, yes of course! About that,
          sir... Officer Hopps just called...
          She found all of `em.

Bogo's eyes widen.

                    GAZELLE (ON PHONE)
          Wow! I'm impressed.
                                                        79.


EXT. ASYLUM - DAY

Cop cars and helicopters surround the asylum. Hopps, flanked
by Bogo and other COPS, leads Lionheart out of the building.

                    HOPPS
          Mayor Lionheart, you have the right
          to remain silent. Anything--

                    LIONHEART
          You don't understand. I was trying
          to protect the city.

                    HOPPS
          You were just trying to protect
          your job.

                    LIONHEART
          No. Listen, we still don't know why
          this is happening. It could destroy
          Zootopia.

                    HOPPS
          You have the right to remain
          silent. Anything you say can and
          will be used against you in a court
          of law...

Nick hangs back, proudly flashing his Junior Detective badge.


INT. ZPD - LOBBY

Bogo addresses the press. Behind him, POSTERS of the Savage
Animals-- each one MUZZLED.

                    BOGO
          Ladies and Gentlemammals... 14
          mammals went missing and all 14
          have been found by our newest
          recruit, who will speak to you in a
          moment. But first, let me remind
          you--

Bogo's voice trails off in the background as Nick and Hopps
watch from the side. Hopps bites her nails, nervous.

                    HOPPS
          Rrrgh. I am so nervous...

                    NICK
          Okay, press conference 101: You
          wanna look smart?
                    (MORE)
                                                        80.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Answer their question with your own
          question and then answer that
          question. Like this, "Excuse me.
          Officer Hopps, what can you tell us
          about the case?"
              (pretending to be Hopps)
          "Well, was this a tough case? Yes.
          Yes it was." You see?

                    HOPPS
          You should be there with me. We did
          this together.

                    NICK
          Well, am I a cop? No. No, I am not.

                    HOPPS
          Funny you should say that, because
          I've been thinking... it would be
          nice to have a partner.

She hands Nick an APPLICATION. Then-- click-- she holds out
the carrot pen to him.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Here. In case you need something to
          write with.

                    BOGO (O.S.)
          At twenty-two hundred hours, we
          found all these missing animals...

Bellwether gestures to Judy to come up.

                    BELLWETHER
          Officer Hopps, it's time.

As Hopps goes, Nick smiles. He's touched...

                    BOGO
          So now, I'll turn things over to
          the officer who cracked the case.
          Officer Judy Hopps.

Hopps takes a deep breath and steps up to the dais.

                    PRESS
          Officer Hopps! / Over here! / Here!

                       HOPPS
                 (pointing to a REPORTER)
          Yes?
                                                    81.


                    REPORTER
          What can you tell us about the
          animals that went savage?

                    HOPPS
          Well, the animals in question...
              (glances at Nick)
          Are they all different species?
          Yes. Yes they are.

Nick smiles, gives a thumbs up.

                    REPORTER 2
          Okay, so what is the connection?

                    HOPPS
          Well, all we know is that they are
          all members of the predator family.

                    ANOTHER REPORTER
          So, predators are the only ones
          going savage?

                    HOPPS
          That is accu-- Yes, that is
          accurate. Yes...

                    REPORTER 3
          Wow. Why is that happening?

                    HOPPS
          We still don't know--

More disappointed rumbling.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
              (trying to appease)
          Ah, it may have something to do
          with biology.

On Nick-- huh? The press reacts, too... big time.

                    REPORTER (O.S.)
          What do you mean by that?

                    HOPPS
          A biological component. You know,
          something in their DNA...

                    REPORTER 4
              (more aggressive)
          In their DNA? Can you elaborate on
          that, please?
                                                        82.


                    HOPPS
          Yes. What I mean is, thousands of
          years ago... um... predators
          survived through their aggressive
          hunting instincts. For whatever
          reason, they seem to be reverting
          back to their primitive, savage
          ways.

Nick doesn't like what he's hearing.

                    REPORTER (O.S.)
          Of course they did.

Nick looks at the posters of the muzzled animals and shakes
his head, disbelieving. FLASH BACK to his memory of being
muzzled as a child.

                    MEAN KID ANIMAL (V.O.)
              (during flashback)
          Aw, is he gonna cry.

                     REPORTER (O.S.)
              (on Nick, as flashback
               ends)
          Officer Hopps, could it happen
          again?

                    HOPPS
          It is possible. So we must be
          vigilant. And we at the ZPD are
          prepared and are here to protect
          you...

This sends the Press into an absolute frenzy.

                    PRESS
          Will more mammals go savage? / What
          is being done to protect us? / Have
          you considered a mandatory
          quarantine on predators?

Bellwether steps in, eager to put an end to the questions.

                    BELLWETHER
          Okay, thank you Officer Hopps, uh,
          that's all the time that we have.
          No more questions...

Bellwether ushers Hopps off stage.

                    HOPPS
          Was I okay?
                                                        83.


                    BELLWETHER
          Oh, you did fine.

Hopps walks across the lobby to Nick, completely unaware that
she just started a controversy.

                    HOPPS
              (excited)
          That went so fast! I didn't get a
          chance to mention you or say
          anything about how we--

                    NICK
              (upset)
          Oh, I think you said plenty.

                    HOPPS
          What do you mean?

                    NICK
              (sarcastic, hard)
          Clearly, there's a biological
          component? These predators may be
          reverting back to their primitive,
          savage ways. Are you serious?

                    HOPPS
          I just stated the facts of the
          case. I mean, it's not like a bunny
          could go savage...

                    NICK
          Right. But a fox could? Huh?

                    HOPPS
          Nick, stop it. You're not like
          them.

                    NICK
          Oh, there's a them now?

                    HOPPS
          You know what I mean. You're not
          that kind of predator.

                    NICK
          The kind that needs to be muzzled?
          The kind that makes you think you
          need to carry around Fox Repellent?

Hopps sighs guiltily.
                                                           84.


                     NICK (CONT'D)
          Yeah, don't think I didn't notice
          that little item the first time we
          met.
               (escalating anger)
          So let me ask you a question. Are
          you afraid of me?
               (Hopps looks heartbroken)
          Do you think I might go nuts? Do
          you think I might go savage? Do you
          think I might try to... EAT YOU?!

He lunges, like he's going to bite her. She flinches and
unthinkingly puts her hand on the repellent.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
              (calm, hurt)
          ...I knew it. Just when I thought
          somebody actually believed in me...

He shoves the application at her.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Probably best if you don't have a
          predator as a partner.

As he walks away, he takes off the sticker badge, crumples it
and tosses it away.

                    HOPPS
          No. Nick. Nick!

                    REPORTER 5
          Officer Hopps! Were you just
          threatened by that predator?

                    HOPPS
          No. He's my friend.

                    REPORTER 6
          We can't even trust our own
          friends?

                    HOPPS
          That is not what I said! Please!

                    REPORTERS
          Are we safe? / Have any other foxes
          gone savage?

But no one will listen. Not anymore.
                                                          85.


INT. NEWS STUDIO - DAY

Two ANCHORS sit in front of a graphic: TUNDRATOWN TRAGEDY.

                    FEMALE BOBCAT NEWS ANCHOR
          More bad news in this city gripped
          by fear.

News footage shows a CARIBOU being loaded into an ambulance.
Another shot shows a POLAR BEAR in a muzzle.

                    FEMALE BOBCAT NEWS ANCHOR (CONT'D)
          A caribou is in critical condition,
          the victim of a mauling by a savage
          polar bear. This-- the 27th such
          attack-- comes just one week after
          ZPD Officer Judy Hopps connected
          the violence to traditionally
          predatory animals.

                    MALE MOOSE NEWS ANCHOR
          Meanwhile, a peace rally organized
          by pop star, Gazelle, was marred by
          protest.

The news story cuts to footage of

THE PROTEST: Hopps is caught in the middle of the PROTESTERS,
trying to separate them.

                    PIG
          Go back to the forest, predator!

                    LEOPARD
          I'm from the savannah!

GAZELLE gives a sound bite to a NEWS REPORTER.

                    GAZELLE
          Zootopia is a unique place. It's a
          crazy, beautiful, diverse city
          where we celebrate our differences.
              (gestures to PROTESTERS in
               background)
          This is not the Zootopia I know.

Gazelle's interview plays as VO over a series of shots:

ON A SUBWAY: Hopps watches a MOTHER RABBIT bring her CHILD
close as a LION gets on the train.

                    GAZELLE (V.O.)
          The Zootopia I know is better than
          this.
                    (MORE)
                                                        86.

                    GAZELLE (V.O.) (CONT'D)
          We don't just blindly assign blame.
          We don't know why these attacks
          keep happening...

IN THE HOSPITAL:

Mrs. Otterton watches her husband flail like a madman in a
padded room. Judy approaches her.

                    GAZELLE (V.O.)
          ...but it is irresponsible to label
          all predators as savages.

                    MRS. OTTERTON
          That's not my Emmitt.

On Hopps-- a look of exhaustion and distress. BACK ON
Gazzelle's interview--

                    GAZELLE
          We cannot let fear divide us.
          Please-- give me back the Zootopia
          I love...


INT. ZPD OFFICE - DAY

The broadcast plays from Hopps' desk computer. As she
watches, Bogo walks up behind her.

                     BOGO
          Come on Hopps. The new Mayor wants
          to see us.

                    HOPPS
          The Mayor? Why?

                    BOGO
          It would seem you've arrived.


INT. ZPD LOBBY - DAY

Clawhauser sighs and closes his laptop. He loads it into a
box of his desk items. Hopps enters.

                    HOPPS
          Clawhauser? What're you doing?

                    CLAWHAUSER
          Um, they thought it would be better
          if a predator such as myself wasn't
          the first face you that you see
          when you walk into the ZPD.
                                                           87.


                      HOPPS
            What?

                      CLAWHAUSER
            They're gonna move me to Records.
            It's downstairs. By the boiler.

Hopps' face falls. Bogo waits for her in the background.

                      BOGO
            Hopps!

Off Hopps' heartbroken look, we

                                                MATCH CUT TO:


CLOSE ON:

A PHOTO of a SMILING HOPPS. Wider to reveal: The photo is on
a PAMPHLET that reads, ZPD: Integrity. Honesty. Bravery.


INT. BELLWETHER'S OFFICE - DAY

Hopps looks at the pamphlet. Bellwether sits across from her
at her desk.

                      HOPPS
            Um... I don't understand.

                      BELLWETHER
            Our city is 90% prey, Judy. And
            right now they're just really
            scared. You're a hero to them. They
            trust you. And so that's why Chief
            Bogo and I want you to be the
            public face of the ZPD.

Bogo sits next to Hopps. She looks at the pamphlet again.

                      HOPPS
                (struggling to find words)
            I'm not... I'm not a hero. I came
            here to make the world a better
            place, but I think I broke it.

                      BOGO
            Don't give yourself so much credit,
            Hopps. The world has always been
            broken. That's why we need good
            cops-- like you.
                                                        88.


                    HOPPS
          With all due respect, sir, a good
          cop is supposed to serve and
          protect-- help the city. Not tear
          it apart.
              (deep sigh)
          I don't deserve this badge.

She removes her badge...

                      BOGO
          Hopps.

                    BELLWETHER
          Judy, you've worked so hard to get
          here. It's what you've wanted since
          you were a kid. You can't quit...

                    HOPPS
          Thank you for the opportunity.

Hopps sets her badge on the desk and walks out. Bellwether
and Bogo look at one another in shock and concern.

                                                FADE OUT.


EXT. HOPPS' FARMS VEGETABLE STAND - DAY

Hopps, with a thousand yard stare, works the carrot stand.
She wraps some carrots in a newspaper-- Headline: GROWING
UNREST DIVIDES CITY-- and hands them to a RABBIT FAMILY.

                    HOPPS
          A dozen carrots.

                      RABBIT MOM
          Thanks!

                    HOPPS
          Have a nice day.

                    RABBIT MOM
              (to daughter)
          Come on.

Hopps reads the paper as Stu and Bonnie approach, concerned.

                    STU HOPPS
          Hey there, Jude-- Jude the dude,
          remember that one? How we doin?

                      HOPPS.
          I'm fine.
                                                        89.


                    BONNIE HOPPS
          You are not fine. Your ears are
          droopy.

Hopps remains fixed on the newspaper and lets out a sigh.

                    HOPPS
          Why did I think I could make a
          difference?

                    STU HOPPS
          Because you're a trier, that's why.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          You've always been a trier.

                     HOPPS
          Oh, I tried. And it made life so
          much worse for so many innocent
          predators.

Off-screen, BEEP-BEEP.

                    STU HOPPS
          Oh, not all of them, though. Speak
          of the devil. Right on time.

A truck pulls up. Its sign reads: GIDEON GREY'S GOOD BAKED
STUFF... With Fresh Produce From Hopps Family Farms.

                    HOPPS
          Is that... Gideon Grey?

                    STU HOPPS
          Yep. It sure is. We work with him
          now.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          He's our partner. And we never
          would have considered it had you
          not opened our minds.

                    STU HOPPS
          That's right. I mean, Gid's turned
          into one of the top pastry chefs in
          the tri-burrows.

                    HOPPS
          That's really cool, you guys.

GIDEON GREY, now paunchy, climbs out his truck.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Gideon Grey. I'll be darned.
                                                        90.


                    ADULT GIDEON GREY
          Hey Judy-- I'd like to say I'm
          sorry for the way I behaved in my
          youth. I had a lotta self-doubt
          that manifested itself in the form
          of unchecked rage and aggression. I
          was a major jerk.

                    HOPPS
          Well, I know a thing or two about
          being a jerk...

                    ADULT GIDEON GREY
          Anyhow-- I brought you all these
          pies.

He holds out some pies. KID BUNNIES come tearing across the
field, bee-lining for the pies. Stu shouts at the kids.

                    STU HOPPS
          Hey kids! Don't you run through
          that midnicampum holicithias!

                    RABBIT KID
              (holding back the others)
          Whoa, whoa, whoa!

                    ADULT GIDEON GREY
          Now there's a 4-dollar word, Mr. H.
          My family always just called them
          night howlers.

Wait. What?

                    HOPPS
          I'm sorry, what did you say?

Stu gestures to the flowers growing on the edge of the crops.

                    STU HOPPS
          Oh, Gid's talking about those
          flowers, Judy. I use `em to keep
          bugs off the produce. But I don't
          like the little ones going near `em
          on account of what happened to your
          Uncle Terry.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Yeah, Terry ate one whole when we
          were kids and went completely nuts.

                    STU HOPPS
          He bit the dickens out of your
          mother.
                                                        91.


                    HOPPS
              (a dawning realization)
          A bunny can go savage...

We stay on Hopps as she pieces it together.

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Savage? Well, that's a strong word.
          But it did hurt like the devil.

                    STU HOPPS
          Well sure it did. There's a sizable
          divot in your arm. I'd call that
          savage.

                    HOPPS
              (as if doing an equation)
          Night howlers aren't wolves.
          They're flowers. The flowers are
          making the predators go savage.
          That's it! That's what I've been
          missing!

Hopps races away, then turns back.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Oh, keys! Keys! Keys! Keys! Hurry!
          Come on! Thank you, I love you bye!

Stu tosses her the keys to his pick-up. Hopps jumps into the
truck, peels out, leaving Stu and Bonnie in the dust.

                    STU HOPPS
          You catch any of that, Bon?

                    BONNIE HOPPS
          Not one bit.

                    GIDEON GREY
          Well, that makes me feel a little
          better. I thought she was talking
          in tongues or something.


EXT. ZOOTOPIA - SAHARA SQUARE - STREET

Hopps drives the farm truck to Finnick's van. She knocks.

                       FINNICK
          Who is it?

                    HOPPS
          I need to find Nick. Please.
                                                          92.


Finnick gives her a reluctant look, then softens.


EXT. BRIDGE - LATER

Hopps arrives at an underpass. She looks around, it's a
desolate, sad place.

                    HOPPS
          Nick? Nick!

There's Nick, sitting on a lawn chair under the bridge.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Oh, Nick! Night howlers aren't
          wolves. They're toxic flowers. I
          think someone is targeting
          predators on purpose and making
          them go savage.

                    NICK
          Wow. Isn't that interesting.

He gets up, walks under the bridge. She follows.

                    HOPPS
          Wait! Wait, please-- I know you'll
          never forgive me. And I don't blame
          you. I wouldn't forgive me either.
          I was ignorant and irresponsible
          and small-minded... But predators
          shouldn't suffer because of my
          mistakes. I have to fix this, but I
          can't do it without you.

He sighs, but still won't look at her.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
              (getting emotional)
          And after we're done, you can hate
          me, and that'll be fine, because I
          was a horrible friend and I hurt
          you... and you can walk away
          knowing you were right all along, I
          really am just a dumb bunny.

It seems she lost him, then:

                    HOPPS (ON RECORDER) (CONT'D)
          I really am just a dumb bunny. I
          really am just a dumb bunny.

Hopps cocks her head. Huh? Nick turns to her... holding her
recording pen.
                                                          93.


                    NICK
          Don't worry, Carrots, I'll let you
          erase it... in 48 hours.

Hopps sniffles and wipes a tear from her eye.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Alright, get in here.

Hopps leans her head on Nick's chest. He gives her a hug.

                     NICK (CONT'D)
          Okay. Oh, you bunnies... You're so
          emotional. There we go. Deep
          breath.
              (then)
          Are you just trying to steal the
          pen. Is that what this is?
              (then)
          You are standing on my tail,
          though. Off, off, off.

                       HOPPS
          I'm sorry.


INT. HOPPS' FAMILY TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER

Hopps drives as Nick sits shotgun-- eating blueberries.

                    NICK
          I thought you guys only grew
          carrots.
              (then, eats)
          What's the plan?

                    HOPPS
          We are gonna follow the night
          howlers.

                       NICK
          Okay. How?

                    HOPPS
              (shows picture of weasel)
          Know this guy?

                     NICK
          Uh-huh. I told you, I know
          everybody.
                                                           94.


EXT. ZOOTOPIA STREET - LATER

We find the weasel selling crappy knock-off merchandise on a
street corner.

                    DUKE WEASELTON
          Well, hello, step right up!
          Anything you need... I got it. All
          your favorite movies! I got movies
          that haven't even been released
          yet!

An ARMADILLO CUSTOMER scans an array of blatant knock-off
movies like "Wreck-it Rhino," "Wrangled," and "Pig Hero 6."

                    DUKE WEASELTON (CONT'D)
          Hey, 15% off! 20! Make me an offer!
          Come on!

                    NICK
              (suddenly appearing)
          Well, well, look who it is. The
          duke of bootleg.

                     DUKE WEASELTON
          What's it to you, Wilde? Shouldn't
          you be melting down a popsicle or
          something?
              (sees Hopps)
          Hey, if it isn't Flopsy the Copsy.

                    HOPPS
          We both know those weren't moldy
          onions I caught you stealing. What
          were you gonna do with those night
          howlers, Wessleton?

                    DUKE WEASELTON
          It's Weaselton. Duke Weaselton. And
          I ain't talking, rabbit. And ain't
          nothing you can do to make me.

Weaselton flicks a toothpick in her face. Hopps smiles at
Nick.


INT. MR. BIG'S PLACE - A LITTLE LATER

We find polar bears holding the weasel over the ice pit.

                     MR. BIG
          Ice `em.
                                                        95.


                    DUKE WEASELTON
          Aaagh! Agh!
              (to Nick)
          Ya dirty rat! Why ya helping her?!
          She's a cop!

                    MR. BIG
          And the godmother to my future
          granddaughter.

Reveal: FRU FRU is pregnant.

                    FRU FRU SHREW
          I'm gonna name her Judy.

                    HOPPS
          Aw.

                    MR. BIG
              (to polar bears)
          Ice this weasel.

                    DUKE WEASELTON
          All right, all right, please! I'll
          talk! I'll talk. I stole them night
          howlers so I could sell `em. They
          offered me what I couldn't
          refuse... Money.

                    HOPPS
          And to whom did you sell them?

                    DUKE WEASELTON (PRE-LAP)
          A ram named Doug. We got a drop
          spot underground...


EXT. SUBWAY STATION - A LITTLE LATER

Nick and Hopps approach an abandoned subway station.

                    DUKE WEASELTON (V.O.)
          ...Just watch it. Doug is the
          opposite of friendly. He's
          unfriendly...

They arrive at the entrance and quickly sneak under the gate.


INT. ABANDONED SUBWAY STATION - MOMENTS LATER

They emerge on a platform and spot an abandoned subway car.
                                                        96.


                     HOPPS
          Come on!

As they sneak up to it... Hopps pulls open the window and
looks inside the car. They both jump into...


INT. THE GREENHOUSE CAR - CONTINUOUS

They both see the rows of night howlers.

                    HOPPS
          The weasel wasn't lying.

                     NICK
          Yeah, looks like old Doug's
          cornered the market on night
          howlers...

Click! A door opens off screen! They quickly hide under a
desk as a TOUGH SHEEP LABWORKER enters.

He goes through the process of harvesting the pollen,
eventually producing a small, blue paint ball pellet of night
howler toxin. Nick and Hopps watch it all.

The Sheep's phone RINGS.

                    DOUG
              (into phone)
          You got Doug here. What's the mark?
          Cheetah in Sahara Square. Got it.

The Sheep loads a gun, cocks it. We see a MAP with pictures
of a various animal targets.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
              (into phone)
          Serious? Yeah, I know they're fast.
          I can hit him. Listen, I hit a tiny
          little otter through the open
          window of a moving car.

Hearing this, the pieces of the puzzle start falling into
place for Hopps. She looks up at the picture of Otterton-- we
FLASHBACK to see Doug hitting him with a serum pellet. Then
Hopps looks at Manchas's picture-- we FLASHBACK to that.

                    DOUG (CONT'D)
              (into phone)
          Yeah I'll buzz you when it's done.
          Or you'll see it on the news. Ya
          know, whichever comes first.
                                                        97.


BAM, BAM, BAM! The goons have returned.

                    WOOLTER (O.S.)
          Hey Doug, open up! We've got your
          latte.

                      DOUG
               (into phone)
          Alright, Woolter and Jesse are
          back, so I'm leaving now.
               (then)
          Out.

Hopps looks around, what is she going to do. As Doug goes to
the door to unlock it, Hopps creeps out of their hiding spot.

                    NICK
          Hey. Hey! Where are you going? Get
          back here! What are you doing?!
          He's gonna see you! What are you
          looking at? Hey! Whatever you're
          thinking, stop thinking it.
          Carrots! Carrots!

                    DOUG
          It better have the extra foam this
          time--

BAM! Hopps kicks Woolter in the back, knocking him into the
other two Thugs. Hopps locks the door.

                    WOOLTER (O.S.)
          Hey, open up!

The Thugs start banging on the doors.

                    NICK
          What are you doing?! You just
          trapped us in here!

                    HOPPS
          We need to get this evidence to the
          ZPD.

Nick picks up the case.

                    NICK
          Okay. Great. Here it is. Got it.

                    HOPPS
          No. All of it!

                    NICK
          Wait, what?
                                                        98.


Hopps rushes to the control room, tries to start the engine.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Great, you're a conductor now? Hey,
          listen-- It would take a miracle to
          get this rust-bucket going.

The train starts moving.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Well... Hallelujah!


INT. TRAIN TRACKS - SAME

                    DOUG
              (on the phone)
          We kinda got a situation at the
          lab...
              (noticing train)
          Oh! It just got worse!

Doug and his minions race after the train.

                                                 BACK TO:


INT. SUBWAY CAR - SAME

Nick and Hopps race away, feeling fairly confident.

                    NICK
          Mission accomplished. Would it be
          premature for me to do a little
          victory toot-toot?

                    HOPPS
          All right. One toot-toot.

Nick blows the train whistle.

                    NICK
          Well, I can cross that off the
          bucket list.

Things are looking up, when:

BAM! Woolter just busted into the car. Nick slams the door
closed right before Woolter gets to them.

                     NICK (CONT'D)
          I may have to rescind that victory
          toot-toot.
                                                         99.


Noise from the roof above them... BAM! BAM! BAM!

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Maybe that's just hail?

Uh-oh. Jesse busts through the window. He's stuck, but
flailing at Hopps. Nick tries to pull him away.

                      NICK (CONT'D)
          Back off!

Nick gets punched backward and notices Woolter charging
toward the door at full speed. Right before Woolter arrives,
Nick pulls the door open.

                      NICK (CONT'D)
          Incoming!

Woolter's momentum carries him into Jesse-- dislodging him
onto the tracks. Hopps is knocked out the window, but grabs
onto Woolter's horn. Hopps tries to hang on as the subway car
hurtles down the tunnel.

                      NICK (CONT'D)
          Carrots?!

                    HOPPS
              (to Nick)
          Don't stop! Keep going!

                    JESSE
              (about to get run over)
          No! No! Please stop!

                    HOPPS
          Do not stop this car!

Jesse dives to safety and Hopps gets bucked up onto the top
of the train. Nick takes the wheel as the train emerges above
ground. Hopps looks up to see... Another train coming toward
them... on the same track! She sees a turn-off switch ahead.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Speed up, Nick! Speed up!

                    NICK
              (staving off Woolter)
          There's another train coming!

                    HOPPS
          Trust me! SPEED! UP!

Woolter sees the train coming and tries to get unstuck, but
he can't. He struggles like crazy.
                                                        100.


                      WOOLTER
            Stop the train! Hey!

Then, at the last second, Hopps appears next to him:

                      HOPPS
            Hey. Need some help?

Hopps kicks Woolter off the train and he lands perfectly on
the turn-off switch on the tracks below. At the last possible
second, their train switches tracks-- just avoiding the
oncoming car.

Except...

                      NICK
            Oh no! Oh no, no, no! Too fast!
            Hold on!

The train derails as it takes the curve. The night howlers
catch fire.

                      NICK (CONT'D)
            I think this is our stop!

Hopps and Nick dive out of the car and onto a subway
platform... Just as the lab car EXPLODES.

                      HOPPS
            Okay... Maybe some of the evidence
            survived.

A second loud EXPLOSION. The train is destroyed.

                      HOPPS (CONT'D)
            Everything is gone. We've lost it
            all.

                      NICK
                (shaking head)
            Yeah. Oh, except for this.

Nick holds up a case-- containing a gun and a pellet.

                      HOPPS
            Oh, Nick! Yes!

Judy SMACKS him on the arm. Hard. Nick grimaces.

                      NICK
            Ow.
                                                        101.


                    HOPPS
          Come on! We gotta get to the ZPD.
          Cut through the Natural History
          Museum!


INT. NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM - NIGHT

Nick and Hopps race through the empty museum. The ZPD
entrance is just ahead.

                    HOPPS
          Oh! There it is!

They're going to make it.

                    BELLWETHER (O.S.)
          Judy! Judy!

Judy and Nick stop and turn. There's Bellwether, standing
behind them with TWO RAM COPS.

                     HOPPS
          Mayor Bellwether!
              (out of breath, rapidly)
          We found out what's happening.
          Someone's darting predators with a
          serum-- that's what's making them
          go savage.

                    BELLWETHER
              (applauding)
          I am so proud of you, Judy. You did
          just a super job.

                    HOPPS
          Thank you, ma'am.
              (troubling realization)
          How did you know where to find us?

                    BELLWETHER
          I'll go ahead and I'll take that
          case now.

                    HOPPS
          You know what... I think Nick and I
          will just take this to the ZPD...

Hopps turns toward the ZPD. Uh oh. One of Bellwether's RAMS
is blocking the way. Nick just now gets what's going on.

       HOPPS (CONT'D)                          NICK
Run!                            Run!
                                                       102.


They take off-- away from the ZPD-- down a dark corridor.

                      BELLWETHER
          Get them!

Hopps looks over her shoulder as she runs-- not seeing a
sharp WOOLY MAMMOTH TUSK sticking out. It slashes her leg,
knocking her off her feet.

                      HOPPS
          Ach!

                    NICK
          Ah Carrots!

Nick goes to her. Her leg is bleeding badly.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          I got ya, come here, come here.

He carries her behind a pillar.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Okay, now just relax.

Nick digs a handkerchief from his pocket. A few BLUEBERRIES
fall out with it.

                    NICK (CONT'D)
          Whoops... Blueberry?

                      HOPPS
          Pass.

                    BELLWETHER (O.S.)
          Come on out, Judy!

                    HOPPS
          Take the case. Get it to Bogo.

                    NICK
          I'm not gonna leave you behind.
          That's not happening.

                    HOPPS
          I can't walk.

                    NICK
          Just, we'll think of something.

Bellwether finally appears, flanked by the Rams.

                    BELLWETHER
          We're on the same team, Judy!
                                                       103.


WITH BELLWETHER & THUGS --

Bellwether talks as they look for Hopps and Nick...

                    BELLWETHER
          Underestimated. Under-appreciated.
          Aren't you sick of it? Predators.
          They may be strong and loud, but
          prey out-number predators 10 to
          one.

Bellwether sees a SHADOW-- RABBIT EARS. She gestures to the
RAMS-- there they are.

                    BELLWETHER (CONT'D)
          Think of it-- 90 percent of the
          population, united against a common
          enemy. We'll be unstoppable.

The Rams are about to pounce on Hopps and Nick... only to
find the shadow is coming from a MUMMIFIED JACKALOPE being
illuminated by a shop light.

                    BELLWETHER (CONT'D)
              (to Goons)
          Over there!

Hopps and Nick are making a run for it. They're going to make
it to the ZPD! When suddenly...

BAM! A RAM tackles them both, knocking the case out of Nick's
paws. Both of them fall into a sunken diorama. Bellwether,
with case in hand, looks over the edge.

                    BELLWETHER (CONT'D)
          Well, you should have stayed on the
          carrot farm, huh? It really is too
          bad; I really did like you.

                    HOPPS
          What are you going to do? Kill me?

                    BELLWETHER
          No! Of course not... he is.

Bellwether takes the dart gun out of the case, aims at Nick
and... THWICK! She darts him.

                       HOPPS
          No! Nick?!

Nick starts to shake and crouch. Bellwether dials her phone.
                                                       104.


                    BELLWETHER
          Yes, police! There's a savage fox
          in the natural history museum.
          Officer Hopps is down! Please
          hurry!

Nick is starting to turn.

                    HOPPS
          No. Nick, don't do this. Fight it.

                    BELLWETHER
          Oh, but he can't help it, can he?
          Since preds are just biologically
          predisposed to be savages.

Nick stalks Hopps, who tries to limp away.

                    BELLWETHER (CONT'D)
          Gosh, think of the headline: "Hero
          Cop Killed By Savage Fox..."

                    HOPPS
          So that's it, prey fears predator,
          and you stay in power?

                    BELLWETHER
          Yeah, pretty much.

                    HOPPS
          It won't work.

                    BELLWETHER
          Fear always works. And I'll dart
          every predator in Zootopia to keep
          it that way.

                    HOPPS
              (as Nick stalks her)
          Oh, Nick! No!

                    BELLWETHER
          Bye-Bye, Bunny.

Nick lunges. He attacks. Hopps screams. Bellwether smiles.

                    HOPPS
          Blood, blood, blood! And death.

Bellwether looks confused. Nick stands up.
                                                       105.


                    NICK
          All right, you're milking it.
          Besides, I think we got it, I think
          we got it. We got it up there,
          thank you yakkety-yak-- you laid it
          all out beautifully.

                    BELLWETHER
          What?

Bellwether looks at her gun, in disbelief.

                    NICK
          Yea, oh, are you looking for the
          serum?
              (holds it up)
          Well, it's right here.

                    HOPPS
          What you've got in the weapon there-
          - those are blueberries. From my
          family's farm.

Livid, Bellwether sees a blueberry in the gun's chamber.

                    NICK
          They are delicious.
              (licking fingers)
          You should try some.

                    BELLWETHER
          I framed Lionheart, I can frame you
          too! It's my word against yours!

                    HOPPS
          Oooo, actually--

Hopps holds up the carrot pen.

                    BELLWETHER (ON CARROT PEN RECORDER)
          And I'll dart every predator in
          Zootopia to keep it that way...

                    HOPPS
          --It's your word against yours.
          It's called a hustle, sweetheart.
          Boom.

Bogo and a TEAM OF COPS burst onto the scene. Bellwether
looks to run but there's nowhere to go. She's nailed.

                                                  CUT TO:
                                                          106.


INT. NEWS STUDIO - DAY

A PREDATOR-PREY news team reads the headlines. FOOTAGE shows
Bellwether being led to jail in cuffs and an orange jumpsuit.

                    PREDATOR ANCHOR (V.O.)
          Former Mayor Dawn Bellwether is
          behind bars today, guilty of
          masterminding the savage attacks
          that have plagued Zootopia of late.

                    PREY ANCHOR
          Her predecessor, Leodore Lionheart,
          denies any knowledge of her plot,
          claiming he was just trying to
          protect the city.

A FELINE REPORTER, KITTY COWLICK, interviews Lionheart.

                    LIONHEART
          Did I falsely imprison those
          animals? Well, yes. Yes I did. It
          was a classic "doing the wrong
          thing for the right reason" kind of
          a deal.

BACK TO THE NEWS DESK --

                    PRED ANCHOR
          In related news, doctors say the
          night howler antidote is proving
          effective in rehabilitating the
          afflicted predators...


INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Mr. Otterton, who wakes up into the arms of his wife.

                    MRS. OTTERTON
          Emmitt? Oh... Emmitt...

She hugs him and he holds her tight. We pull back to reveal
Hopps in the room, watching their reunion.

                     MRS. OTTERTON (CONT'D)
              (to Hopps)
          Thank you.
                                                        107.


EXT. ZOOTOPIA CENTRAL PLAZA - DAY

Hopps walks through the CENTRAL PLAZA of ZOOTOPIA. She looks
around to see animals coming back together. She focuses on
two KIDS: one pred, one prey playing soccer.

                    HOPPS (V.O.)
          When I was a kid, I thought
          Zootopia was this perfect place
          where everyone got along and anyone
          could be anything...

Hopps kicks the soccer ball with the kids.

                    HOPPS (V.O.)
          Turns out, real life's a little bit
          more complicated than a slogan on a
          bumper sticker. Real life is messy.

AT THE ZPD: Hopps enters to find Clawhauser back at his desk,
unpacking. What's more-- TWO COPS approach him with donuts.

                    HOPPS (V.O.)
          We all have limitations. We all
          make mistakes. Which means-- hey,
          glass half full!-- we all have a
          lot in common. And the more we try
          to understand one another, the more
          exceptional each of us will be. But
          we have to try.


EXT. CADET TRAINING GROUNDS - DAY

Reveal: Hopps is giving a commencement address to the
GRADUATES of the Police Academy.

                    HOPPS
          So, no matter what type of animal
          you are, from the biggest elephant
          to our first fox...

Reveal: Nick is a cadet. He removes his shades, winks at
Hopps.

                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          I implore you... try. Try to make
          the world a better place.

On stage, Hopps readies to pin a BADGE on Nick. As she
approaches, they exchange a nod-- a small, sincere gesture.
She places the badge, then gives Nick an official salute.
                                                         108.


                    HOPPS (CONT'D)
          Look inside yourself, and recognize
          that change starts with you. It
          starts with me. It starts with all
          of us.

Caps are thrown in the air. The music fades out, leaving just
the APPLAUSE, which is interrupted by:

                    BOGO (PRE-LAP)
          All right! All right...

                                                  CUT TO:


INT. ZPD BULLPEN - DAY

Hopps and Nick (now in uniform) sit together among ZPD's
finest. Bogo stands at the podium.

                    BOGO
          ...Enough! Shut it! We have some
          new recruits with us this morning,
          including our first fox. Who cares.

                    NICK
          Ha! You should have your own line
          of inspirational greeting cards,
          sir.

                     BOGO
          Shut your mouth, Wilde.
          Assignments! Officers Grizzoli,
          Fangmeyer, Delgato: Tundratown
          Swat. Snarlov, Higgins, Wolfard:
          Undercover. Hopps, Wilde...
              (beat of anticipation)
          Parking duty. Dismissed.
              (beat)
          Just kidding! We have reports of a
          street racer tearing up Savannah
          Central. Find him, shut him down.


INT. / EXT. COP CAR (DRIVING SHOTS) - DAY

Hopps drives. Nick rides shotgun, eating a Pawpsickle.

                    NICK
          So are all rabbits bad drivers or
          is it just you?

She slams on the brakes. He lurches forward, accidentally
jamming the Pawpsickle into his face.
                                                        109.


                    HOPPS
          Oops. Sorry.

                     NICK
              (as he wipes off his face)
          Sly bunny.

                      HOPPS
          Dumb fox.

                    NICK
          You know you love me.

                    HOPPS
          Do I know that? Yes. Yes, I do.

They smile wide. They're stopped at a red light, when
suddenly-- a TRICKED OUT RED SPORTS CAR blasts through the
light! They look at each other and smile even wider.

Hopps stomps on the gas. Nick hits the siren. The patrol car
takes off...


EXT. STREETS OF ZOOTOPIA - MOMENTS LATER

The fleeing sports car comes to a screeching halt. ANGLE ON
the license plate: FST NML. Hopps and Nick exit their car and
approach the driver.

                    HOPPS
          Sir, you were going 115 miles per
          hour. I hope you have a good
          explanation.

But when they get to the driver's window...

                    NICK
          Flash? Flash? Hundred yard dash?!

Yep. It's Flash the sloth.

                    FLASH
              (several beats)
          Nick.

                                              CUT TO BLACK:

                              THE END
