



				 DO THE RIGHT THING

					    by

					 Spike Lee






















Second Draft
March 1, 1988; Brooklyn, N.Y.

Forty Acres and a Mule Filmworks, Inc.
YA-DIG SHO-NUFF
BY ANY MEANS NECESSARY
WGA #45816




"The greatest miracle Christianity has achieved in America
is that the black man in white Christian hands has not grown
violent.  It is a miracle that 22 million black people have
not risen up against their oppressors--in which they would
have been justified by all moral criteria, and even by the
democratic tradition!  It is a miracle that a nation of
black people has so fervently continued to believe in a
turn-the-other-cheek and heaven-for-you-after-you-die
philosophy!  It is a miracle that the American Black people
have remained a peaceful people, while catching all the
centuries of hell that they have caught, here in white man's
heaven!  The miracle is that the white man's puppet Negro
'leaders,' his preachers and the educated Negroes laden with
degrees, and others who have been allowed to wax fat off
their black poor brothers, have been able to hold the black
masses quiet until now."

		    --THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF MALCOLM X

TITLES--WHITE ON BLACK

					   PLACE
				 Brooklyn, New York

								    CUT TO:

					   TIME
					  Present

								    CUT TO:

					  WEATHER
				    Hot as shit!

								    CUT TO:

INT: WE LOVE RADIO STATION STOREFRONT--DAY

EXTREME CLOSE UP

WE SEE only big white teeth and very Negroidal (big) lips.

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  Waaaake up!
		  Wake up!  Wake up!  Wake up!
		  Up ya wake!  Up ya wake!  Up ya wake!

CAMERA MOVES BACK SLOWLY TO REVEAL MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY,
a DJ, a radio personality, behind a microphone.


					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  This is Mister Señor Love Daddy.
		  Your voice of choice.  The world's
		  only twelve-hour strongman, here on
		  WE LOVE radio, 108 FM.  The last on
		  your dial, but the first in ya
		  hearts, and that's the truth, Ruth!

The CAMERA, which is STILL PULLING BACK, shows that Mister
Señor Love Daddy is actually sitting in a storefront window.
The control booth looks directly out onto the street.  This
is WE LOVE RADIO, a modest station with a loyal following,
right in the heart of the neighborhood.  The OPENING SHOT
will be a TRICK SHOT--the CAMERA PULLING BACK through the
storefront window.

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  Here I am.  Am I here?  Y'know it.
		  It ya know.  This is Mister Señor
		  Love Daddy, doing the nasty to ya
		  ears, ya ears to the nasty.  I'se
		  play only da platters dat matter,
		  da matters dat platter and that's
		  the truth, Ruth.

He hits the cart machine and we hear a station jingle.

					VO
		  L-O-V-E RADIO.

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  Doing da ying and yang da flip and
		  flop da hippy and hoppy
			    (he yodels)
		  Yo da lay he hoo.  I have today's
		  forecast.
			    (he screams)
		  HOT!

He laughs like a madman.

INT: DA MAYOR'S BEDROOM--DAY

An old, grizzled man stirs in the bed, his sheets are soaked
with sweat.  He flings them off his wet body.

					DA MAYOR
		  Damn, it's hot.

INT: JADE'S APARTMENT--DAY

CAMERA MOVES IN ON a young man sitting at the edge of a sofa
bed.

CLOSE UP--HIS SMALL HANDS

WE SEE him counting his money.  This isn't any ordinary
counting of money, he's straightening out all the corners of
the bills, arranging them so the bills--actually the "dead
presidents"--are facing the same way.  This is MOOKIE.  Once
he's finished with that task, counting his money, he sneaks
into his sister's bedroom.

INT: JADE'S BEDROOM--DAY

CLOSE UP--JADE

JADE, Mookie's sister, is fast asleep.  Mookie's fingers
ENTER THE FRAME and start to play with her lips.  Jade
pushes his hands away.  Mookie waits several beats and he
continues.  Jade wakes up--mad.

					JADE
		  Don't you have enough sense not to
		  bother people when they're sleeping?

					MOOKIE
		  Wake up!

					JADE
		  Wake up?  Saturday is the lone day
		  I get to sleep late.

					MOOKIE
		  It's gonna be hot today.

					JADE
		  Good!  Leave me alone when I'm
		  sleeping.  I'm gonna get a lock on
		  my door, to keep ya ass outta here.

					MOOKIE
		  Don't ya love ya brother Mookie
		  anymore?  I loves ya, Jade.

					JADE
		  Do me a favor.  Go to work.

					MOOKIE
		  Later.  Gotta get paid.

He plants a big fat juicy on his sister's forehead.

EXT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

A 1975 El Dorado pulls up in front of the neighborhood
pizzeria--Sal's Famous Pizzeria.

From out of the car comes the owner, SAL, a slightly
overweight man in his early fifties, and his two sons, PINO,
22, and VITO, 20.  It's time for them to go to work at Sal's
Famous Pizzeria in the heart of Black Brooklyn.  Sal's sits
on the corner of The Block.  The Block being where this film
on the hottest day of the summer takes place.

Pino kicks a beer can in his path into the gutter.

					SAL
		  Pino, get a broom and sweep out
		  front.

					PINO
		  Vito, get a broom and sweep out
		  front.

					VITO
		  See, Pop.  That's just what I was
		  talkin' about.  Every single time
		  you tell Pino to do something, he
		  gives it to me.

					PINO
		  He's nuts.

					SAL
		  The both of youse, shaddup.

					VITO
		  Tell Pino.

					PINO
		  Get the broom.

					VITO
		  I ain't getting shit.

					SAL
		  Hey!  Watch it.

					PINO
		  I didn't want to come to work
		  anyway.  I hate this freakin' place.

					SAL
		  Can you do better?  C'mere.

Pino is now silent.  Sal walks over to him.


					SAL
		  Can you do better?
			    (he pops Pino upside
			    the head)
		  I didn't think so.  This is a
		  respectable business.  Nuthin'
		  wrong with it.  Get dat broom.

					PINO
		  Tell Vito.

					VITO
		  Pop asked you.

					SAL
		  I'm gonna kill somebody today.

EXT: MOOKIE'S BROWNSTONE--DAY

Mookie comes down his stoop and walks to work.

EXT: STREET--DAY

The Block is beginning to come to life.  Those unlucky souls
who have to work this Saturday drag themselves to it, and
the kids are out on the street to play in the hot sun all
day long.

EXT: MOTHER SISTER'S STOOP--DAY

Mookie stops to say hello to MOTHER SISTER.  She leans out
her window on the parlor floor.  In the summertime, the only
time when she's not perched in her window is when she's
asleep.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  Good morning, Mookie.

					MOOKIE
		  Good morning to you.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  Now, Mookie, don't work too hard
		  today.  The man said it's gonna be
		  HOT as the devil.  I don't want ya
		  falling out from the heat.  You
		  hear me, son?

					MOOKIE
		  I hear ya, Mother Sister.  I hear
		  you.


					MOTHER SISTER
		  Good.  I'll be watching ya, son.
		  Mother Sister always watches.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

Mookie enters the pizzeria and Pino is on him before the
door closes.

					PINO
		  Mookie, late again.  How many times
		  I gotta tell you?

					MOOKIE
		  Hello, Sal.  Hello, Vito.

					SAL
		  How ya doin', Mookie?

					VITO
		  Whaddup?

					MOOKIE
		  Just coolin'.

					PINO
		  You're still late.

					SAL
		  Pino, relax, will ya.

					PINO
		  Here, take the broom.  The front
		  needs sweeping.

					MOOKIE
		  Wait a minute.  Wait a minute.  I
		  just got here.  You sweep.  I
		  betcha Sal asked you first anyhow.

					VITO
		  That's right.

					PINO
		  Shaddup, Vito.

					MOOKIE
		  Fuck dat shit.  I deliver pizzas.
		  That's what I get paid for.

					PINO
		  You get paid to do what we say.


					MOOKIE
		  What we say.  I didn't hear Sal say
		  nuthin'.

Pino looks at his father.  He wants to be backed up on this;
all he gets is an amused look, and a smirk from Vito.

					PINO
		  Who's working for who?

There's a knock on the door and Da Mayor enters.

					SAL
		  Come on in, Mayor.

					DA MAYOR
		  Good morning, gentlemens.  It's
		  gonna be a scorcher today, that's
		  for sure.  Need any work done
		  around here?

Sal looks at Pino, who reluctantly gives Da Mayor the broom.

					DA MAYOR
		  It will be the cleanest sidewalk in
		  Brooklyn.  Clean as the Board of
		  Health.

Da Mayor almost runs out of the pizzeria in his hurry; soon
as he finishes he'll be able to get a bottle.

					PINO
		  Pop, I don't believe this shit.  We
		  runnin' welfare or somethin'?
		  Every day you give dat bum--

					MOOKIE
		  Da Mayor ain't no bum.

					PINO
		  Give dat bum a dollar for sweeping
		  our sidewalk.  What do we pay
		  Mookie for?  He don't even work.  I
		  work harder than him and I'm your
		  own son.

					MOOKIE
		  Who don't work?  Let's see you
		  carry six large pies up six flights
		  of stairs.  No elevator either and
		  shit.


					SAL
		  Both of youse--shaddup.  This is a
		  place of business.

					VITO
		  Tell 'em, Pop.

					PINO
		  Me and you are gonna have a talk.

					VITO
		  Sez who?

					PINO
		  Sez me.

					SAL
		  Hey!  What did I say?

					MOOKIE
		  Who doesn't work?  Don't start no
		  shit, won't be no shit.

					SAL
		  Mookie, no cursing in the store.

					MOOKIE
		  Talk to your son.

EXT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

Da Mayor sweeps the sidewalk, happy as can be.  As soon as
he finishes he can get that money and get that bottle.

EXT: STOOP--DAY

A group of youths sit on a stoop, waiting for someone.  They
are CEE, PUNCHY, and the lone female, ELLA.

					ELLA
		  What's keeping him?

					PUNCHY
		  You call him, then.

Ella stands up and yells.

					ELLA
		  Yo, Ahmad!

					PUNCHY
		  I coulda done dat.


					ELLA
		  Yo, Ahmad!

She looks up into his window, then sits down.

					ELLA
		  Punchy, if ya want to do some more
		  screaming, be my guest.  I'm too
		  through.

The door swings open at the top of the stoop and AHMAD
appears.

					AHMAD
		  Who's yelling my name?

					ELLA
		  Punchy told me to.

					AHMAD
		  Don't listen to him, it will get ya
		  in trouble.

					ELLA
		  Heard that, Punchy.

Ahmad sits down with them.

					AHMAD
		  Ella, you have a brain, use it.

In the BG, we hear the dum-dum-dum of a giant box.  The
sound gets louder as the box gets closer.  The youths look
down the block and see a tall young man coming towards them.
He has a very distinct walk, it's more like a bop.  This is
RADIO RAHEEM.  The size of his box is tremendous and one has
to think, how does he carry something that big around with
him?  It must weigh a ton, and it seems like the sidewalk
shakes as the rap music blares out.  The song we hear is the
only one Radio Raheem plays.

MEDIUM SHOT--RADIO RAHEEM

Radio Raheem stops in front of the group, looks at them, and
turns down the volume.  It's quiet again.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  Peace, y'all.

					ELLA
		  Peace, Radio Raheem.

					CEE
		  Peace.

											    10.


					PUNCHY
		  You the man, Radio Raheem.

					AHMAD
		  It's your world.

					CEE
		  In a big way.

Radio Raheem nods and turns up the volume.  Way up.

					AHMAD
		  My people.  My people.

EXT: WE LOVE STOREFRONT--DAY

Radio Raheem waves to Mister Señor Love Daddy as he walks by.

INT: WE LOVE CONTROL BOOTH--DAY

Mister Señor Love Daddy gives Radio Raheem a clenched-fist
salute.

EXT: FRUIT-N-VEG DELIGHT--DAY

Da Mayor walks into a newly opened fruit and vegetable deli
stand that is owned by Koreans.

INT: FRUIT-N-VEG DELIGHT--DAY

Da Mayor is looking for his beer in the refrigerated cases,
his ice-cold beer.

					DA MAYOR
		  Where's the Bud?  Where's the Bud?

					KOREAN CLERK
		  No mo' Bud.  You look what we have
		  and buy.

					DA MAYOR
		  No more Bud.  What kind of joint is
		  this?  How come no mo' Bud?  Doctor,
		  this ain't Korea, China, or wherever
		  you come from.  Get some Budweiser
		  in this motherfucker.

					KOREAN CLERK
		  You buy 'nother beer.

											    11.


					DA MAYOR
		  Alright.  Alright.  Y'know you're
		  asking a lot to make a man change
		  his beer, that's asking a lot,
		  Doctor.

EXT: MOTHER SISTER'S STOOP--DAY

Da Mayor has his can of beer (not Budweiser) and the brown
paper bag is twisted into a knot at the bottom.  He stops
and takes a long swig.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  You ole drunk.  What did I tell ya
		  about drinking in front of my stoop?
		  Move on, you're blocking my view.

Da Mayor lowers the can from his mouth and looks up at his
heckler.  It's obvious from the look on his face he's heard
this before.  Da Mayor contorts his face and stares at her.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  You ugly enough.  Don't stare at me.

Da Mayor changes his face into a more grotesque look.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  The evil eye doesn't work on me.

					DA MAYOR
		  Mother Sister, you've been talkin'
		  'bout me the last eighteen years.
		  What have I ever done to you?

					MOTHER SISTER
		  You're a drunk fool.

					DA MAYOR
		  Besides that.  Da Mayor don't
		  bother nobody.  Nobody don't bother
		  Da Mayor but you.  Da Mayor just
		  mind his business.  I love everybody.
		  I even love you.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  Hold your tongue.  You don't have
		  that much love.

					DA MAYOR
		  One day you'll be nice to me.  We
		  might both be dead and buried, but
		  you'll be nice.  At least civil.

											    12.


Da Mayor tips his beat-up hat to Mother Sister and takes a
final swig of beer just for her.

INT: TINA'S APARTMENT--DAY

An elderly Puerto Rican woman, CARMEN, is telling off her
daughter TINA in Spanish.  Tina, having heard enough, closes
the door on her mother's ranting and raving.

ANGLE--TINA

Tina bends down and scoops her baby son HECTOR up from the
bed and holds him for dear life to her breasts.  She talks
to her son while walking around the room.

					TINA
		  Hector, I shouldn't be telling you
		  this but you would find out sooner
		  or later.  Ya father ain't no real
		  father.  He's a bum, a two-bit bum
		  in a hundred-dollar world.  Your
		  father is to the curb.  You're
		  smart.  I see that look on ya face.
		  You're saying if he's such a bum
		  why am I with him?  Good question.
		  Like I said before, you're no dummy.
		  He talked his way into my panties,
		  I thought being a mother would make
		  me happy, make me whole.  He's a
		  mistake, but you are not.

Tina kisses her son.  Tina is seventeen years old, another
teenage parent.

EXT: STREET CORNER--DAY

Every day on this corner, summer or winter, spring or fall,
a small group of men meet.  They have no steady employment,
nothing they can speak of; they do, however, have the gift
of gab.  These man can talk, talk, and mo' talk, and when a
bottle is going round and they're feeling "nice," they get
philosophical.  These men become the great thinkers of the
world, with solutions to all its ills; like drugs, the
homeless, and AIDS.  They're called the Corner Men: SWEET
DICK WILLIE, COCONUT SID, and ML.  All three are sitting in
folding chairs up against a wall in the shade.

					ML
		  The way I see it, if this hot
		  weather continues, it will surely
		  melt the polar caps and the whole
		  wide world--the parts that ain't
		  water already--will be flooded.

											    13.


					COCONUT SID
		  You a dumb-ass simple motherfucker.
		  Where did you read that?

					ML
		  Don't worry about it.  But when it
		  happens and I'm in my boat and ya
		  black ass is drowning, don't ask me
		  to throw you a lifesaver either.

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  Fool, you're thirty cents away from
		  a quarter.  How you gonna get a boat?

					ML
		  Don't worry about it.

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  You're raggedy as a roach.  You eat
		  the holes out of donuts.

					ML
		  I'll be back on my feet.  Soon
		  enough.

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  So when is all this ice suppose to
		  melt?

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

Customers are in Sal's; it's lunchtime and it's fairly busy.
Sal puts a hot slice down on the counter in front of BUGGIN'
OUT, a b-boy.

					SAL
		  You paying now or on layaway?

Buggin' Out looks at the slice.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  How much?

					SAL
		  You come in here at least three
		  times a day.  You a retard?  A buck
		  fifty.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Damn, Sal, put some more cheese on
		  that motherfucker.

											    14.


					SAL
		  Extra cheese is two dollars.
		  Y'know dat.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Two dollars!  Forget it!

Buggin' Out slams his money down on the counter, takes his
slice and sits down.

ANGLE--TABLE

All around Buggin' Out, peering down from the WALL OF FAME,
are signed, framed, eight by ten glossies of famous Italian
Americans.  WE SEE Joe DiMaggio, Rocky Marciano, Perry Como,
Frank Sinatra, Luciano Pavarotti, Liza Minnelli, Governor
Mario Cuomo, Al Pacino and, of course, how can we forget
Sylvester Stallone as Rocky Balboa: THE ITALIAN STALLION,
also RAMBO.

CLOSE UP--BUGGIN' OUT

He looks at the pictures hovering above him.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Mookie.

CLOSE UP--MOOKIE

					MOOKIE
		  What?

CLOSE UP--BUGGIN' OUT

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  How come you ain't got no brothers
		  up?

CLOSE UP--MOOKIE

					MOOKIE
		  Ask Sal.

ANGLE--PIZZERIA

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Sal, how come you ain't got no
		  brothers up on the wall here?

					SAL
		  You want brothers up on the Wall of
		  Fame, you open up your own business,
		  then you can do what you wanna do.
		  My pizzeria, Italian Americans up
		  on the wall.

											    15.


					VITO
		  Take it easy, Pop.

					SAL
		  Don't start on me today.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Sal, that might be fine, you own
		  this, but rarely do I see any
		  Italian Americans eating in here.
		  All I've ever seen is Black folks.
		  So since we spend much money here,
		  we do have some say.

					SAL
		  You a troublemaker?

Pino walks over to Buggin' Out.

					PINO
		  You making trouble.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Put some brothers up on this Wall
		  of Fame.  We want Malcolm X, Angela
		  Davis, Michael Jordan tomorrow.

Sal comes from behind the counter with his Louisville
Slugger Mickey Mantle model baseball bat.  Vito is by his
side, but Mookie intercepts them, and takes Buggin' Out
outside.

					SAL
		  Don't come back, either.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Boycott Sal's.  Boycott Sal's.

EXT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

					MOOKIE
		  Buggin' Out, I gotta work here.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  I'm cool.  I'm cool.

					MOOKIE
		  Come back in a week, it will be
		  squashed.

They give each other five.

											    16.


INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

Mookie enters.

					SAL
		  Mookie, if your friends can't
		  behave, they're not welcome.

					MOOKIE
		  I got no say over people.

					PINO
		  You talk to 'em.

					MOOKIE
		  People are free to do what they
		  wanna do.

					SAL
		  I know, this is America, but I
		  don't want no trouble.

EXT: STREET--DAY

Mookie walks down the block with pizza box in hand when he
sees Da Mayor sitting on his stoop.

					DA MAYOR
		  Mookie.

					MOOKIE
		  Gotta go.

					DA MAYOR
		  C'mere, Doctor.

Mookie turns around and goes back.

					DA MAYOR
		  Doctor, this is Da Mayor talkin'.

					MOOKIE
		  OK.  OK.

					DA MAYOR
		  Doctor, always try to do the right
		  thing.

					MOOKIE
		  That's it?

					DA MAYOR
		  That's it.

											    17.


					MOOKIE
		  I got it.

INT: TENEMENT BUILDING--DAY

Mookie is hiking up a flight of stairs.

ANGLE--STAIRCASE

He puts the pizza box down and takes a breather.

CLOSE UP--MOOKIE

Sweat drips off his face.

ANGLE--MOOKIE

He bends down to pick up the pizza box and tackles the last
few flights.

CLOSE UP--DOORBELL

Mookie pushes the buzzer.

ANGLE--DOOR

A young Puerto Rican woman opens the door.

					NILDA
		  I hope it's not cold.

Mookie hands her the pizza.

					MOOKIE
		  No, it's not cold.  Twelve dollars
		  for the pie.

Nilda hands him a handful of singles.  Mookie looks at the
crumpled mess.  Nilda attempts to close the door, but
Mookie's foot says, "Hell no."

					MOOKIE
		  Hold it.  Let me count this first.

First he straightens out the dollars, then counts the bills.

					MOOKIE
		  You're short.

					NILDA
		  I counted the twelve dollars myself.

					MOOKIE
		  Twelve is right, but no tip.

											    18.


					NILDA
		  No tip.

					MOOKIE
		  Look, lady.  I carried your pizza
		  up five flights of stairs and shit.
		  The cheese didn't slide over to one
		  side like it sometimes does with
		  delivery people who don't care.  I
		  do care.  May I get paid?

Nilda looks at him and sees right away he's not going
anywhere.

					NILDA
		  Wait here.

					MOOKIE
		  I'll wait.

Nilda goes into the apartment and we hear her talking in
Spanish to a male.

ANGLE--MOOKIE

Mookie bends down to tie his sneakers.

ANGLE--DOOR

Nilda reappears and holds out a lonely lone dollar for him.
Mookie has her hold it out for awhile, then he takes it.

					MOOKIE
		  Gracias mucho.

Nilda slams the door.

					MOOKIE
		  A dollar!  Cheap bastard!  Your
		  pizza is gonna be fucked next time.

EXT: MOTHER SISTER'S STOOP--DAY

Jade sits down next to Mother Sister on the stoop.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  Jade, you're late.

					JADE
		  I know, Mother Sister, but I'm here
		  now.  Where's the stuff?

Mother Sister hands her a bag that is at her side.

											    19.


					MOTHER SISTER
		  Seen your brother, just walked by.

Jade unwraps a head scarf from around Mother Sister's head
and a full head of long black hair falls to her shoulders.

					JADE
		  This might take some time.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  I got nowhere to go.  We haven't
		  had a good sit-down for a long while.

Jade begins to part, grease, and comb out Mother Sister's
hair.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  Tender-headed runs in my family.
		  You tender-headed?

					JADE
		  Yeah, me too.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  That's why I don't fool with it.
		  Only let you touch it...Ouch!

					JADE
		  Sorry, comb got caught.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  Be gentle, child.  Mother Sister is
		  an old woman.

					JADE
		  How are you holding up in this
		  weather?

					MOTHER SISTER
		  I'll do.

					JADE
		  I don't know why you still haven't
		  bought an air conditioner.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  Don't like 'em.  A fan will do.

ANGLE--DA MAYOR

Da Mayor stands in front of the stoop, he's smiling for days.

											    20.


					DA MAYOR
		  I didn't know you had such beautiful
		  hair.

ANGLE--STOOP

					MOTHER SISTER
		  Fool, there's a lot in this world
		  you don't know.

CLOSE UP--DA MAYOR

					DA MAYOR
		  I'm not stopping.  I'm on my way.

The Mayor tips his hat and heads up the block.

ANGLE--STOOP

					JADE
		  You are too cruel to Da Mayor, it
		  isn't right.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  I'm not studying no Mayor.  Besides,
		  he reminds me of my least favorite
		  peoples.  My tenants and my ex-
		  husband--Goddamn-bless his soul.

They both laugh.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  Number One: I got some jive, late-
		  rent-paying trifling Negroes in
		  this house.  Every year I keep
		  threatening to sell it.

					JADE
		  And move to Long Island...

					MOTHER SISTER
		  And move to Long Island.  Number
		  Two: my ex-husband lost all my
		  property, all my money in his
		  scheme to build a Black business
		  empire.  Needless to say what
		  happened, this house is it, all I
		  got.  I'm too through with yar
		  people.

CLOSE UP--JADE

					JADE
		  Whew!

											    21.


She looks up at the white-hot sun.

CLOSE UP--MOTHER SISTER

She does the same.

X CLOSE UP--THE WHITE-HOT SUN

HOT, HOTTER AND HOTTEST MONTAGE

Right now, folks, we're gonna suspend the narrative and show
how people are coping with the oppressive heat.

People are taking cold showers.

Sticking faces in ice-cold, water-filled sinks.

Heads stuck in refrigerators.

A wife tells her husband, "Hell no, I'm not cooking.  It's
too hot.  The kitchen is closed."

Men downing six-packs of ice-cold brew.

Faces stuck directly in front of fans.

A young kid cracks an egg on Sal's Cadillac.  The moment the
egg hits the car hood it starts to cook.  The kid looks
directly INTO THE CAMERA and smiles, then looks up to see
Sal, mad as a motherfucker, chasing after him.

And how can I forget the papers, the newspaper headlines.

			  New York Post: "A SCORCHER"
		    New York Daily News: "2 HOT 4 U?"
		New York Newsday: "OH BOY!  BAKED APPLE"
	    New York Times: "RECORD HEATWAVE HITS CITY"

EXT: STREET--DAY

CLOSE UP--JOHNNY PUMP

POW!  A powerful gush of water flies out RIGHT AT THE CAMERA.

Ahmad has just turned on the johnny pump and the white
stream of water flies across the street.

This attracts all the people of the block.  It's a chance to
cool off and momentarily beat the killer heat.

ANGLE--CEE AND PUNCHY

They both scrape beer cans on the sidewalk.

											    22.


ANGLE--ELLA

She stands with caution away from the fire hydrant.  Ella
does not want to get wet.

ANGLE--CEE AND PUNCHY

They're still scraping away.

ANGLE--STREET

Folks, young and old, begin to get in the water and play.

ANGLE--CEE AND PUNCHY

Both now have cans with the ends scraped away, and go to the
johnny pump.  Punchy bends down behind the hydrant and
places the can over the water.  The can now directs the
water into giant streams.

ANGLE--ELLA

Ahmad sneaks up behind Ella and picks her up.  She's kicking
and screaming furiously.

					ELLA
		  Ahmad!  Put me down!  Put me down!
		  I can't get wet!  I'm not playing!

Ahmad is not having it.  He carries a kicking Ella into the
middle of the street in direct line of fire.

					AHMAD
		  Yo!

					ELLA
		  No!

They both are hit with a blast of water and are soaked to
the bone.  Ella starts to punch Ahmad, and chases after him.

ANGLE--STREET

We hear the familiar rap music of Radio Raheem's box.

CLOSE--RADIO RAHEEM

Radio Raheem is too cool.  By the way he's dressed, it could
be fall, not the hottest day of the year.  But you could
never tell it from him.  He's too cool.

CLOSE--RADIO RAHEEM

											    23.


Raheem looks at Cee, he wants to get by and he doesn't want
to get wet either.  And if his box gets wet, somebody is
gonna die.  Cee knows this too.

ANGLE--JOHNNY PUMP

Cee stands in front of the hydrant, blocking the water so
Radio Raheem can pass.

ANGLE--RADIO RAHEEM

He slowly bops across the street as all eyes watch.  When
he's clear, Cee moves and the water gushes out again as
folks play.

ANGLE--STREET

We hear a car horn blowing.  People move out of the way as
the vehicle speeds through the spray.

ANGLE--WHITE CONVERTIBLE

An older man, CHARLIE, stops his white convertible and blows
his horn.

					CHARLIE
		  I'm not playing.  There's gonna be
		  trouble if you fuck around.

CLOSE--CEE AND PUNCHY

					PUNCHY
		  Go 'head.  You got it.  You got it.

CLOSE--CHARLIE

					CHARLIE
		  This is an expensive car.

CLOSE--CEE

					CEE
		  You won't get wet.

ANGLE--HYDRANT

Both Punchy and Cee sit in front of the hydrant once again,
blocking the water.

ANGLE--WHITE CONVERTIBLE

The car cautiously eases forward.  Charlie doesn't trust Cee
and Punchy at all.

											    24.


CLOSE--CHARLIE

					CHARLIE
		  I'm warning you.

CLOSE--CEE AND PUNCHY

					PUNCHY
		  C'mon.

					CEE
		  Hurry up.  We ain't got all day.

ANGLE--STREET

The people all move to the car, for they know what is about
to happen.

ANGLE--HYDRANT

Cee and Punchy leap off the hydrant, unleashing a jet blast
that flies directly into Charlie's car.  The whole block is
dying.

ANGLE--STREET

Charlie pulls his flooded car over to the curb, jumps out,
and runs to get hold of Cee and Punchy.  Of course, he's
slow, as the kids turn into track stars and make like Carl
Lewis.

ANGLE--STREET

Charlie, a wet mess, tries to buy some sympathy from the
folks; none is to be bought.

					CHARLIE
		  I'm fucking soaked.  If I ever
		  catch those fucks they'll be sorry.
		  Cocksucking sonabitches!

The ranting continues, and people laugh at him.

					CHARLIE
		  You people make me sick.

A cop car screeches to a halt in front of the man.  Two
officers, LONG and PONTE, get out.

					CHARLIE
		  Officers, I want an arrest made.
		  Now.

											    25.


					OFFICER PONTE
		  What happened?

					CHARLIE
		  Two Black kids soaked me and my car.
		  It's fucking ruined.

					OFFICER LONG
		  Where are they?

					CHARLIE
		  Where are they?  What kind of
		  fucking asshole question is that?
		  They ran the fuck away.

					OFFICER PONTE
		  Do you wish to file a complaint?

					CHARLIE
		  A complaint.  I want those fucks
		  locked under the jail.

Officer Long goes into his car and gets a wrench.

ANGLE--JOHNNY PUMP

Officer Long turns off the hydrant, then puts the cap back on.

					OFFICER PONTE
		  This hydrant better not come back
		  on or there's gonna be hell to pay.

					CHARLIE
		  What about my car?  I want justice.

Officer Long sides up to Da Mayor who's been looking on.

					OFFICER LONG
		  You know anything about this?

Da Mayor is quiet.

					CHARLIE
		  He knows.  He's a witness.  They
		  all know.  He saw the whole thing.

Officer Ponte goes to Da Mayor's other side.

					OFFICER LONG
		  Who were the punks?

					DA MAYOR
		  Those who'll tell don't know.
		  Those who know won't tell.

											    26.


					OFFICER PONTE
		  A wise guy.

Mookie emerges from the crowd and leads Da Mayor away from
the interrogation.

					MOOKIE
		  Let's go, Mayor.

					OFFICER LONG
		  Keep this hydrant off.  You want to
		  swim, go to Coney Island.

					CHARLIE
		  He's leaving?  What about me?

					OFFICER PONTE
		  I suggest you get in your car
		  quick, before these people start to
		  strip it clean.

The man looks at the crowd of Blacks and Puerto Ricans
around him and he considers what he just heard.

					OFFICER LONG
		  Let's go, break it up.  Go back to
		  your jobs.

					OFFICER PONTE
		  What jobs?

Both cops laugh.

ANGLE--STREET

Charlie drives away, fuming.

INT: ROOFTOP--DAY

Cee and Punchy look down from a roof on all the havoc and
confusion they've started.  Both laugh.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

Mookie enters.

					SAL
		  Mookie, what took you so long?  I
		  got a business to run.

					MOOKIE
		  Run it then.

											    27.


					SAL
		  Here, this goes to the radio station.

He gives Mookie a bag full of food.

					VITO
		  Pop, I'm gonna go with Mookie.

					SAL
		  Good, make sure he don't jerk around.

					PINO
		  Yeah, hurry back, it's getting
		  crowded.

EXT: STREET--DAY

Vito and Mookie walk down the block.

					VITO
		  Mister Señor Love Daddy is cool.

					MOOKIE
		  Ya like him, huh?

					VITO
		  Yeah.

					MOOKIE
		  Y'know, Vito, I know Pino is ya
		  brother and shit, but the next time
		  he hits ya, the next time he
		  touches ya, you should "house him."
		  Kick his ass.

					VITO
		  I don't know.

					MOOKIE
		  If you don't make a stand, he's
		  gonna be beating ya like a egg for
		  the rest of your life.

					VITO
		  That's what you think?

					MOOKIE
		  That's what I think.

					VITO
		  I don't like to fight.

											    28.


					MOOKIE
		  Do it this one time and he'll never
		  touch you again.

EXT: WE LOVE RADIO--DAY

Mookie and Vito wave at Mister Señor Love Daddy through the
storefront window and he buzzes them in.

OMIT

INT: CONTROL BOOTH--DAY

Mookie and Vito very quietly walk in; the man is on the air.

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  Peoples, my stomach's been grumbling
		  but help has arrived.  My main man
		  Mookie has saved the day, straight
		  from Sal's Famous Pizzeria, down
		  the block.  Come up to the mike,
		  Mookie.

Mookie goes to the mike.

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  C'mon, don't be shy.  Mmm, smells
		  good.  This is ya Love Daddy
		  talkin' to ya, starvin' like Marvin.
		  Say something, Mookie.

					MOOKIE
		  Mister Señor Love Daddy, I'd like
		  to dedicate the next record to my
		  heart, Tina.

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  Alright.  Let me play this record
		  while I go to work on my chicken
		  Parmigiana hero with extra cheese
		  and extra sauce.

He hits the cart machine...

					VO
		  I just looove you so much Mister
		  Señor Love Daddy.  WE LOVE RADIO,
		  108 FM.

...then cues up the record.

											    29.


					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  Here ya are.
			    (he hands Mookie a
			    twenty-dollar bill)
		  Keep the change.

					MOOKIE
		  That's right on time.  This is my
		  friend, Vito.  His pops is Sal.

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  Tell ya father he makes the best
		  heros in Brooklyn.

					VITO
		  I'll do that.

					MOOKIE
		  We're outta here.

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  Thanks for stopping by.  WE LOVE
		  Radio, 108 FM.

EXT: STREET--DAY

On a stoop, a group of Puerto Ricans sits talking, drinking
cerveza frío, and playing dominoes.  One of their cars is
parked near the stoop, and blasts salsa music.

ANGLE--RADIO RAHEEM

As usual we hear the rap music of Radio Raheem, but
underneath the salsa music.  Radio Raheem does not like to
be bested; the salsa music from the parked car is giving him
competition, this is no good.  Radio Raheem stands in front
of the stoop and raises his decibel level.

ANGLE--STOOP

The Puerto Rican men look at him, then begin to yell at him
in Spanish.  There is a standoff, the rap and salsa clashing
in a deafening roar.  One of the men, STEVIE, gets off the
stoop and goes to the car.

ANGLE--CAR

Stevie turns the car radio off.

CLOSE--RADIO RAHEEM

Radio Raheem smiles, nods, turns his box to a reasonable
listening level, and bops down the block.  Radio Raheem
still the loudest.  Radio Raheem still the king.

											    30.


					STEVIE
		  You got it, bro.

ANGLE--STOOP

The men curse in Spanish and shake their heads in
bewilderment and Stevie turns the salsa back on.

EXT: STREET--DAY

Vito and Mookie see Buggin' Out on their way back to Sal's.

					MOOKIE
		  You the man.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  You the man.

					MOOKIE
		  No, you the man.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  No.  I'm just a struggling Black
		  man trying to keep my dick hard in
		  a cruel and harsh world.

Buggin' Out gives Mookie five and a menacing look at Vito.

					MOOKIE
		  Vito is down.

EXT: STREET--DAY

Buggin' Out is walking down the block when CLIFTON, a
yuppie, accidentally bumps into him, stepping on his new
sneakers.

CLOSE--BUGGIN' OUT

He looks at his sneakers.

CLOSE--SNEAKERS

There is a big black smudge on his new white unlaced Air
Jordans.

ANGLE--BUGGIN' OUT

He runs down the block after Clifton.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Yo!

Clifton turns around.

											    31.


					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Yo!

					CLIFTON
		  Yes?

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  You almost knocked me down.  The
		  word is "excuse me."

					CLIFTON
		  Excuse me.  I'm very sorry.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Not only did you knock me down, you
		  stepped on my new white Air Jordans
		  that I just bought and that's all
		  you can say, "Excuse me?"

This commotion has attracted a crowd, including Ahmad, Cee,
Punchy, and Ella.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  I'll fuck you up quick two times.

HERE WE GO!

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Who told you to step on my sneakers?
		  Who told you to walk on my side of
		  the block?  Who told you to be in
		  my neighborhood?

					CLIFTON
		  I own a brownstone on this block.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Who told you to buy a brownstone on
		  my block, in my neighborhood on my
		  side of the street?

The crowd likes that one and they laugh and egg him on.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  What do you want to live in a Black
		  neighborhood for?  Motherfuck
		  gentrification.

					CLIFTON
		  I'm under the assumption that this
		  is a free country and one can live
		  where he pleases.

											    32.


					BUGGIN' OUT
		  A free country?

AWWW SHIT!  Why did he get Buggin' started?

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  I should fuck you up just for that
		  stupid shit alone.

Buggin' Out looks down at his marred Air Jordans.  The
crowd, smelling blood, wants to see some.

					AHMAD
		  Your Jordans are dogged.

					CEE
		  You might as well throw 'em out.

					PUNCHY
		  They looked good before he messed
		  them up.

					ELLA
		  You used to be so fine.

					AHMAD
		  How much did you pay for them?

					CEE
		  A hundred bucks.

					AHMAD
		  A hundred bucks!

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  You're lucky the Black man has a
		  loving heart.  Next time you see me
		  coming, cross the street quick.

					AHMAD
		  He's dissing you.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Damn, my brand-new Jordans.  You
		  should buy me another pair.

					CLIFTON
		  I'm gonna leave now.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  If I wasn't a righteous Black man
		  you'd be in serious trouble.
		  SERIOUS.

											    33.


The crowd gives their approval.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Move back to Connecticut.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

Mookie and Vito enter the shop.

					SAL
		  I should have Vito go with you all
		  the time.

					PINO
		  Yeah, no more ninety-minute
		  deliveries around the corner.

					MOOKIE
		  Pino, I work hard like everybody in
		  here.

					VITO
		  He's right.

					PINO
		  C'mere.
			    (Pino smacks his brother)
		  Don't get too friendly with da Mook.

					SAL
		  That's gonna be the last time you
		  hit Vito.

					MOOKIE
		  Smack him back.

					PINO
		  What?

					MOOKIE
		  Remember what I said.

Vito stands frozen in front of his brother.

					PINO
		  Are you gonna listen to this Mook?
		  Listen to him tell you to smack me?
		  Your only brother?

Vito walks away and Mookie is disgusted.

					PINO
		  I didn't think so.

											    34.


EXT: STREET--DAY

Officers Ponte and Long drive down the block and at the
corner they stop, glare at the Corner Men.

CLOSE--OFFICER PONTE

CLOSE--SWEET DICK WILLIE

CLOSE--OFFICER LONG

CLOSE--COCONUT SID

ANGLE--POLICE CAR

					OFFICER PONTE
		  What a waste.

ANGLE--CORNER

Sweet Dick, ML, and Coconut Sid stare right back at the cops.

ANGLE--POLICE CAR

It drives off.

ANGLE--CORNER

					COCONUT SID
		  As I was saying before we were so
		  rudely interrupted by the finest.

					ML
		  What was you saying?

Coconut Sid blanks.

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  Motherfucker wasn't saying shit.

					ML
		  Look at that.

					COCONUT SID
		  Look at what?

ML points across the street to the Korean fruit and vegetable
stand.

					ML
		  It's a fucking shame.

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  What is?

											    35.


					ML
		  Sweet Dick Willie.

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  That's my name.

					ML
		  Do I have to spell it out?

					COCONUT SID
		  Make it plain.

					ML
		  OK, but listen up.  I'm gonna break
		  it down.

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  Let it be broke.

					ML
		  Can ya dig it?

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  It's dug.

CLOSE--ML

					ML
		  Look at those Korean motherfuckers
		  across the street.  I betcha they
		  haven't been a year off da
		  motherfucking boat before they
		  opened up their own place.

CLOSE--COCONUT SID

					COCONUT SID
		  It's been about a year.

CLOSE--ML

					ML
		  A motherfucking year off the
		  motherfucking boat and got a good
		  business in our neighborhood
		  occupying a building that had been
		  boarded up for longer than I care
		  to remember and I've been here a
		  long time.

CLOSE--SWEET DICK WILLIE

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  It has been a long time.

											    36.


CLOSE--COCONUT SID

					COCONUT SID
		  How long?

CLOSE--ML

					ML
		  Too long!  Too long.  Now for the
		  life of me, I haven't been able to
		  figger this out.  Either dem
		  Koreans are geniuses or we Blacks
		  are dumb.

This is truly a stupefying question and all three are silent.
What is the answer?

					COCONUT SID
		  It's gotta be cuz we're Black.  No
		  other explanation, nobody don't
		  want the Black man to be about shit.

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  Old excuse.

					ML
		  I'll be one happy fool to see us
		  have our own business right here.
		  Yes, sir.  I'd be the first in line
		  to spend the little money I got.

Sweet Dick Willie gets up from his folding chair.

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  It's Miller time.  Let me go give
		  these Koreans s'more business.

					ML
		  It's a motherfucking shame.

					COCONUT SID
		  Ain't that a bitch.

EXT: STOOP--DAY

Da Mayor sits on his stoop and a kid, EDDIE, runs by.

					DA MAYOR
		  Sonny!  Sonny!

Eddie stops.

					DA MAYOR
		  Doctor, what's your name?

											    37.


					EDDIE
		  Eddie Lovell.

					DA MAYOR
		  How old are you?

					EDDIE
		  Ten.

					DA MAYOR
		  What makes Sammy run?

					EDDIE
		  My name is Eddie.

					DA MAYOR
		  What makes Sammy run?

					EDDIE
		  I said my name is Eddie Lovell.

					DA MAYOR
		  Relax, Eddie, I want you to go to
		  the corner store.  How much will it
		  cost me?

					EDDIE
		  How would I know how much it's
		  gonna cost if I don't know what I'm
		  buying?

					DA MAYOR
		  Eddie, you're too smart for your
		  own britches.  Listen to me.  How
		  much do you want to run to the
		  store for Da Mayor?

					EDDIE
		  Fifty cents.

					DA MAYOR
		  You got a deal.

He gives Eddie some money.

					DA MAYOR
		  Git me a quart of beer, Budweiser,
		  say it's for your father, if they
		  bother you.

Eddie runs down the block just as Ahmad, Cee, Punchy, and
Ella pass him.

											    38.


					AHMAD
		  Who told him he was Da Mayor of
		  this block?

					CEE
		  He's self-appointed.

					ELLA
		  Leave him alone.

					PUNCHY
		  Shut up.

					DA MAYOR
		  Go on now.  Leave me be.

					AHMAD
		  You walk up and down this block
		  like you own it.

					CEE
		  Da Mayor.

					PUNCHY
		  You're old.

					AHMAD
		  A old drunk bum.

Da Mayor stands up from his seat cushion on the stoop.

					AHMAD
		  What do you have to say?

					DA MAYOR
		  What do you know 'bout me?  Y'all
		  can't even pee straight.  What do
		  you know?  Until you have stood in
		  the doorway and heard the hunger of
		  your five children, unable to do a
		  damn thing about it, you don't know
		  shit.  You don't know my pain, you
		  don't know me.  Don't call me a
		  bum, don't call me a drunk, you
		  don't know me, and it's
		  disrespectful.  I know your parents
		  raised you better.

The teenagers look at Da Mayor.

					ELLA
		  He told you off.

Da Mayor sits back down on his seat cushion on his stoop.

											    39.


INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

ANGLE--PAY PHONE ON WALL

Mookie is on the phone.

					MOOKIE
		  I know I haven't seen you in four
		  days.  I'm a working man.

					TINA (VO)
		  I work too, but I still make time.

					MOOKIE
		  Tina, what do you want me to do?

					TINA (VO)
		  I want you to spend some time with
		  me.  I want you to try and make
		  this relationship work.  If not,
		  I'd rather not be bothered.

					MOOKIE
		  Alright.  Alright.  I'll be over
		  there sometime today.

					TINA (VO)
		  When?

					MOOKIE
		  Before I get off work.

					TINA (VO)
		  Bring some ice cream, I'm burning
		  up.  Do you love me?

					MOOKIE
		  Do I love you?

CLOSE--SAL

					SAL
		  Mookie, get offa da phone.

CLOSE--MOOKIE

					MOOKIE
		  Be off in a second.  Tina, I
		  dedicated a record on Mister Señor
		  Love Daddy's show to you.

					TINA (VO)
		  Big deal.

											    40.


CLOSE--SAL

					SAL
		  Mookie!  How is anybody gonna call
		  in?

CLOSE--MOOKIE

					MOOKIE
		  Big deal?  If that's not LOVE, I
		  don't know what is.

CLOSE--PINO

					PINO
		  You deaf or what?

CLOSE--MOOKIE

					MOOKIE
		  Gotta go.  See ya soon.
			    (he hangs up)
		  Everybody happy now?

The phone rings right away and Pino picks it up.

ANGLE--PINO

					PINO
		  Sal's Famous Pizzeria, yeah, two
		  large pizzas, pepperoni and
		  anchovies, hold on...  See, Pop,
		  Mookie fucking talking on the phone
		  and people are trying to call in
		  orders.  He's making us lose
		  business.

CLOSE--SAL

					SAL
		  Mookie, you're fucking up.

					PINO
		  Twenty minutes.
			    (he hangs up the phone)
		  How come you niggers are so stupid?

CLOSE--MOOKIE

					MOOKIE
		  If ya see a nigger here, kick his
		  ass.

CLOSE--PINO

											    41.


					PINO
		  Fuck you and stay off the phone.

CLOSE--VITO

					VITO
		  Forget it, Mookie.

ANGLE--PIZZERIA

					MOOKIE
		  Who's your favorite basketball
		  player?

					PINO
		  Magic Johnson.

					MOOKIE
		  And not Larry Bird?  Who's your
		  favorite movie star?

					PINO
		  Eddie Murphy.

Mookie is smiling now.

					MOOKIE
		  Last question: Who's your favorite
		  rock star?

Pino doesn't answer, because he sees the trap he's already
fallen into.

					MOOKIE
		  Barry Manilow?

Mookie and Vito laugh.

					MOOKIE
		  Pino, no joke.  C'mon, answer.

					VITO
		  It's Prince.  He's a Prince freak.

					PINO
		  Shut up.  The Boss!  Bruuucce!!!!

					MOOKIE
		  Sounds funny to me.  As much as you
		  say nigger this and nigger that,
		  all your favorite people are
		  "niggers."

											    42.


					PINO
		  It's different.  Magic, Eddie,
		  Prince are not niggers, I mean, are
		  not Black.  I mean, they're Black
		  but not really Black.  They're more
		  than Black.  It's different.

With each word Pino is hanging himself even further.

					MOOKIE
		  Pino, I think secretly that you
		  wish you were Black.  That's what I
		  think.  Vito, what do you say?

					PINO
		  Y'know, I've been listening and
		  reading 'bout Farrakhan, ya didn't
		  know that, did you?

					MOOKIE
		  I didn't know you could read.

					PINO
		  Fuck you.  Anyway, Minister
		  Farrakhan always talks about the
		  so-called "day" when the Black man
		  will rise.  "We will one day rule
		  the earth as we did in our glorious
		  past."  You really believe that shit?

					MOOKIE
		  It's e-vit-able.

					PINO
		  Keep dreaming.

					MOOKIE
		  Fuck you, fuck pizza, and fuck
		  Frank Sinatra, too.

					PINO
		  Well, fuck you, too, and fuck
		  Michael Jordan.

								    CUT TO:

RACIAL SLUR MONTAGE

The following will be a QUICK-CUTTING MONTAGE of racial
slurs, with different ethnic groups pointing the finger at
one another.  Each person looks directly INTO THE CAMERA.

CLOSE--MOOKIE

											    43.


					MOOKIE
		  Dago, wop, garlic-breath, guinea,
		  pizza-slinging, spaghetti-bending,
		  Vic Damone, Perry Como, Luciano
		  Pavarotti, Sole Mio, nonsinging
		  motherfucker.

								    CUT TO:

CLOSE--PINO

					PINO
		  You gold-teeth, gold-chain-wearing,
		  fried-chicken-and-biscuit-eatin',
		  monkey, ape, baboon, big thigh,
		  fast-running, three-hundred-sixty-
		  degree-basketball-dunking spade
		  Moulan Yan.

								    CUT TO:

CLOSE--STEVIE

					STEVIE
		  You slant-eyed, me-no-speak-
		  American, own every fruit and
		  vegetable stand in New York,
		  Reverend Moon, Summer Olympics '88,
		  Korean kick-boxing bastard.

								    CUT TO:

CLOSE--OFFICER LONG

					OFFICER LONG
		  Goya bean-eating, fifteen in a car,
		  thirty in an apartment, pointed
		  shoes, red-wearing, Menudo, meda-
		  meda Puerto Rican cocksucker.

								    CUT TO:

CLOSE--KOREAN CLERK

					KOREAN CLERK
		  It's cheap, I got a good price for
		  you, Mayor Koch, "How I'm doing,"
		  chocolate-egg-cream-drinking, bagel
		  and lox, B'nai B'rith asshole.

								    CUT TO:

											    44.


INT: WE LOVE RADIO STATION CONTROL ROOM--DAY

CLOSE--MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  Yo!  Hold up!  Time out!  Time out!
		  Y'all take a chill.  Ya need to
		  cool that shit out... and that's
		  the truth, Ruth.

								    CUT TO:

CLOSE--WHITE-HOT SUN

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

Mookie picks up his two pizza pies for delivery.

					MOOKIE
		  Sal, can you do me a favor?

					SAL
		  Depends.

					MOOKIE
		  Can you pay me now?

					SAL
		  Can't do.

					MOOKIE
		  Sal, just this once, do me that
		  solid.

					SAL
		  You know you don't get paid till we
		  close tonight.  We're still open.

					MOOKIE
		  I would like to get paid now.

					SAL
		  Tonight, when we close.

Mookie leaves.

EXT: STREET--DAY

Mookie walks down the block.  The streets are filled with
kids playing.  WE SEE stoop ball, double dutch, hand games,
bike-riding, skateboarding, etc.

ANGLE--MOOKIE

											    45.


Radio Raheem approaches Mookie.

					MOOKIE
		  Whaddup.  Money?

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  I was going to buy a slice.

					MOOKIE
		  I'll be back after I make this
		  delivery.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  On the rebound.

Mookie stares at the gold "brass knuckles" rings Radio
Raheem wears on each hand.  Spelled out across the rings are
the words "LOVE" on the right hand and "HATE" on the left
hand.

					MOOKIE
		  That's the dope.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  I just copped them.  Let me tell
		  you the story of Right-Hand--Left-
		  Hand--the tale of Good and Evil.

					MOOKIE
		  I'm listening.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  HATE!

He thrusts up his left hand.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  It was with this hand that Brother
		  Cain iced his brother.  LOVE!

He thrusts up his right hand.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  See these fingers, they lead
		  straight to the soul of man.  The
		  right hand.  The hand of LOVE!

Mookie is buggin'.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  The story of Life is this...

He locks his fingers and writhes, cracking the joints.

											    46.


					RADIO RAHEEM
		  STATIC!  One hand is always fighting
		  the other.  Left Hand Hate is
		  kicking much ass and it looks like
		  Right Hand Love is finished.  Hold
		  up.  Stop the presses!  Love is
		  coming back, yes, it's Love.  Love
		  has won.  Left Hand Hate KO'ed by
		  Love.

Mookie doesn't know what to say, so he doesn't say anything.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  Brother, Mookie, if I love you I
		  love you, but if I hate you...

					MOOKIE
		  I understand.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  I love you, my brother.

					MOOKIE
		  I love you, Black.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

Radio Raheem enters Sal's with music blaring.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  Two slices.

					SAL
		  No service till you turn dat shit
		  off.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  Two slices.

					PINO
		  Turn it off.

					SAL
		  Mister Radio Raheem, I can't even
		  hear myself think.  You are
		  disturbing me and you are disturbing
		  my customers.

Sal grabs his Mickey Mantle bat from underneath the counter.
Everyone, Sal, Vito, Pino, Radio Raheem, and the customers
are poised for something to jump off, STATIC.

CLOSE--RADIO RAHEEM

											    47.


He smiles and turns off the beat.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  Two slices, extra cheese.

CLOSE--SAL

Sal puts Mickey Mantle back into its place.

					SAL
		  When you come in Sal's Famous
		  Pizzeria, no music.  No rap, no
		  music.  Capisce?  Understand?...
		  This is a place of business.  Extra
		  cheese is two dollars.

INT: TENEMENT HALLWAY--DAY

Mookie hands the pizzas over and takes the money and counts
it.

					MOOKIE
		  Thanks.

EXT: STREET--DAY

Mookie walks, says hello to the people he knows.

EXT: STOOP--DAY

Mookie runs up stoop.

INT: MOOKIE'S APARTMENT--DAY

We hear a key in the door, the lock turns and Mookie enters.

					MOOKIE
		  Jade.

					JADE (OS)
		  I'm in here.

INT: JADE'S BEDROOM--DAY

Jade sits in a chair directly in front of an air conditioner
going full blast.

					JADE
		  How come you're not at Sal's?

					MOOKIE
		  I'm working.

											    48.


					JADE
		  Is this another one of your patented
		  two-hour lunches?

					MOOKIE
		  I just come home to take a quick
		  shower.

					JADE
		  Sal's gonna be mad.

					MOOKIE
		  Later for Sal.  Y'know, sometimes I
		  think you're more concerned with
		  him than me.

					JADE
		  I think no such a thing.  Sal pays
		  you, you should work.

					MOOKIE
		  Slavery days are over.  My name
		  ain't Kunta Kinte.  Sis, I don't
		  want to argue, stop pressing me.

					JADE
		  I just don't want you to lose the
		  one job you've been able to keep,
		  that's all.  I'm carrying you as it
		  is.

					MOOKIE
		  Don't worry 'bout me.  I always get
		  paid.

					JADE
		  Yeah, then ya should take better
		  care of your responsibilities.

					MOOKIE
		  What responsibilities?

					JADE
		  I didn't stutter.  Take care of
		  your responsibilities.  Y'know
		  exactly what I'm talking about.

INT: BATHROOM--DAY

Mookie turns on the shower and screams; the water is ice cold.

EXT: MOTHER SISTER'S STOOP--DAY

Mother Sister sits in her window looking out at the block.

											    49.


EXT: DA MAYOR'S STOOP--DAY

Da Mayor has fallen asleep sitting on his stoop.  His hands
loosely hold a brown paper bag that is tightly twisted
around a beer can.

EXT: CORNER--DAY

Sweet Dick, ML, and Coconut Sid each hold an umbrella for
protection from the hot and harsh rays.

EXT: FIRE ESCAPE--DAY

Ahmad, Punchy, Cee, and Ella sit on a fire escape, trying to
keep still, trying to find a cool spot in the shade.  No one
says a word.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

Sal takes a seat at one of the tables.

					SAL
		  I'm beat.

Pino sits down next to his father.

					PINO
		  Pop, I think we should sell this
		  place, get outta here while we're
		  still ahead...and alive.

					SAL
		  Since when do you know what's best
		  for us?

					PINO
		  Couldn't we sell this and open up a
		  new one in our own neighborhood?

					SAL
		  Too many pizzerias already there.

					PINO
		  Then we could try something else.

					SAL
		  We don't know nuthin' else.

					PINO
		  I'm sick of niggers, it's a bad
		  neighborhood.  I don't like being
		  around them, they're animals.

											    50.


					VITO
		  Some are OK.

					PINO
		  My friends laugh at me all the
		  time, laugh right in my face, tell
		  me go feed the Moulies.

					SAL
		  Do your friends put money in your
		  pocket?  Pay your rent?  Food on ya
		  plate?

Pino is quiet.

					SAL
		  I didn't think so.

					PINO
		  Pop, what else can I say?  I don't
		  wanna be here, they don't want us
		  here.  We should stay in our own
		  neighborhood, stay in Bensonhurst.

					SAL
		  So what if this is a Black
		  neighborhood, so what if we're a
		  minority.  I've never had no
		  trouble with dese people, don't
		  want none either, so don't start
		  none.  This is America.  Sal's
		  Famous Pizzeria is here for good.
		  You think you know it all?  Well,
		  you don't.  I'm your father, you
		  better remember that.

INT: BATHROOM--DAY

Mookie pulls the shower curtain back and steps out.

INT: MOOKIE'S ROOM--DAY

Mookie sits on his bed, still wet.

ANGLE--JADE

					JADE
		  Hurry up and get dressed.

					MOOKIE
		  I'm coming.

					JADE
		  I'm going with you.

											    51.


BUGGIN' OUT BOYCOTT MONTAGE

EXT: STREET--DAY

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Da Mayor, we need your leadership.

					DA MAYOR
		  Doctor, what are you talkin' bout?

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  I'm organizing a boycott of Sal's
		  Famous Pizzeria.

					DA MAYOR
		  Keep walkin', Doctor.  I don't want
		  to hear none of your foolishness.

								    CUT TO:

CLOSE--CORNER MEN

					ML
		  No!

					COCONUT SID
		  No!

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  Hell no!  Goddamnit.  Sal ain't
		  never done me no harm.  You either.

								    CUT TO:

CLOSE--BUGGIN' OUT

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Would you like to sign a petition
		  to boycott Sal's Famous Pizzeria.

								    CUT TO:

CLOSE--AHMAD, CEE, PUNCHY, and ELLA

They DOG him out (ADLIB)

								    CUT TO:

CLOSE--BUGGIN' OUT

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  I'll do it without your help.

											    52.


EXT: WE LOVE RADIO--DAY

Buggin' Out waves at Mister Señor Love Daddy as he walks by
the storefront.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

Buggin' Out sticks his head in and yells:

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Sal, we're gonna boycott ya fat ass.

Before Sal and his two sons can answer, Buggin' Out is gone.

EXT: STREET--DAY

Buggin' Out has one foot up on a fire hydrant and tries to
clean his soiled Air Jordan.

ANGLE--JADE AND MOOKIE

Jade and Mookie walk up to Buggin' Out.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  It's so nice to see a family
		  hanging out together.

					MOOKIE
		  We're not hanging out.  I'm being
		  escorted back to work.

					JADE
		  That's not even true.  I just want
		  a slice.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Jade, you don't know this, but I'm
		  organizing a boycott of Sal's
		  Famous Pizzeria.

					JADE
		  What did he do this time?

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Y'know all those pictures he has
		  hanging on the Wall of Fame?

					JADE
		  So?

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Have you noticed something about
		  them?

											    53.


					JADE
		  No.

					MOOKIE
			    (interjects)
		  Yo, I'm gone.

					JADE
		  I'll see ya there.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Peace.

Mookie leaves.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Every single one of those pictures
		  is somebody Italian.

					JADE
		  And?

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  And I--we--want some Black people up.

					JADE
		  Did you ask Sal?

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Yeah, I asked him.  I don't want
		  nobody in there, nobody spending
		  good money in Sal's.  He should get
		  no mo' money from the community
		  till he puts some Black faces up on
		  that motherfucking wall.

Jade looks at Buggin' Out like "Are you serious?"

					JADE
		  Buggin' Out, I don't mean to be
		  disrespectful, but you can really
		  direct your energies in a more
		  useful way.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  So, in other words, you are not down.

					JADE
		  I'm down, but for a worthwhile cause.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Jade, I still love you.

											    54.


					JADE
		  I still love you too.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

					SAL
		  Mookie, you are pushing it.  You're
		  really pushing it.  I'm not paying
		  you good money to fucking jerk me
		  around.

Mookie has nothing to say.

					SAL
		  You're gonna be in the street with
		  the rest of your homeboys.

					PINO
		  'Bout time, Pop.

ANGLE--DOOR

Jade enters, and Sal looks up.  He stops blasting Mookie and
a very noticeable change comes over him.

					SAL
		  Jade, we've been wondering when ya
		  would pay us a visit.

					JADE
		  Hi, Sal, Pino, Vito.

					JADE
		  What's happening, Jade?

					JADE
		  Nuthin' really.  How are you
		  treating my brother?

					SAL
		  The Mook?  Great.  Mookie's a good
		  kid.

					PINO
		  Pop, stop lying.

					SAL
		  Shaddup!  Jade, what can I fix you?

					JADE
		  What's good?

											    55.


					SAL
		  Everything, but for you I'm gonna
		  make up something special.  Take a
		  seat.  There, that's a clean table.

Sal moves behind the counter and goes to work.  Pino and
Mookie look at each other in agreement, neither likes what
he has seen.  This happens to Sal every time Jade is in
Sal's Famous Pizzeria.

ANGLE--TABLE

Vito sits down with Jade.

					JADE
		  You still letting Pino push you
		  around?

					VITO
		  Who told you that?  He doesn't push
		  me, who told you, Mookie tell you
		  that?  I hold my own.

					JADE
		  Forget about it, Vito.  Forget I
		  even brought it up.

					VITO
		  Pino picks on me, but I don't let
		  him push me around.  Mookie tell
		  you that?

					JADE
		  Alright already.

EXT: ROOFTOP--DUSK

The once white-hot sun is now turning into a golden orange
glaze as it begins to set.  Ahmad, Cee, Punchy, and Ella
dance on the roof around a box that is turned into WE LOVE.
Each one is trying to come up with some new moves, a new
dance, and a name for it.

EXT: STREET--DUSK

Radio Raheem is walking down the block and there is something
wrong, something is not quite right.  AHA!  His music is not
loud; the rap song begins to drag and finally stops
altogether.

CLOSE--RADIO RAHEEM

He looks at his box and presses the battery level indicator.

											    56.


CLOSE--BATTERY LEVEL INDICATOR

The needle doesn't move.  His batteries have had it.

INT: FRUIT-N-VEG DELIGHT--DUSK

CLOSE--RADIO RAHEEM

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  Twenty "D" Duracells.

CLOSE--KOREAN CLERK

					KOREAN CLERK
		  Twenty "C" Duracells.

CLOSE--RADIO RAHEEM

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  D, not C.

CLOSE--KOREAN CLERK

					KOREAN CLERK
		  C Duracell.

CLOSE--RADIO RAHEEM

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  D!  D!  D!  You dumb motherfucker.
		  Learn how to speak English first.  D.

Radio Raheem points to the D batteries behind the counter.

CLOSE--KOREAN CLERK

					KOREAN CLERK
		  How many you say?

CLOSE--RADIO RAHEEM

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  Twenty!  Motherfucker!  Twenty!

CLOSE--KOREAN CLERK

					KOREAN CLERK
		  Motherfucker you.

Radio Raheem has to laugh at that one.

											    57.


					RADIO RAHEEM
		  Motherfucker you.  You're alright.
		  You're alright.  Just gimme my
		  twenty Duracells, please.

EXT: FRUIT-N-VEG DELIGHT--DUSK

Da Mayor is looking at a bunch of cut flowers when Radio
Raheem comes out with batteries in hand--finally.

EXT: MOTHER SISTER'S STOOP--DUSK

ANGLE--WINDOW

Mother Sister is sitting in her window as usual.

ANGLE--STOOP

Da Mayor walks up the stoop with a bunch of fresh-cut
flowers in a discarded wine bottle for a vase.

ANGLE--DA MAYOR

Da Mayor holds them out for Mother Sister, who does not
acknowledge him at all.

					DA MAYOR
		  I'd thought you might like these...
		  I guess not.

Da Mayor takes a seat on the stoop and puts the flowers to
his face.

					DA MAYOR
		  Ain't nuthin' like the smell of
		  fresh flowers.  Don't you agree,
		  Miss Mother Sister?

Mother Sister does not answer.  He puts the flowers down.

					DA MAYOR
		  Summertime, all ya can smell is the
		  garbage.  Stink overpowers
		  everything, especially soft sweet
		  smells like flowers.

He looks up at Mother Sister who immediately turns away.

					DA MAYOR
		  If you don't mind, I'm gonna set
		  right here, catch a breeze or two,
		  then be on my way.

Da Mayor looks up at the setting sun.

											    58.


					DA MAYOR
		  Thank the Lord, the sun is going
		  down, it's hot as blazes.  Yes Jesus.

CLOSE--SUN

The sun is an orange and purple glaze.

EXT: STREET--DUSK

Radio Raheem is back in action.  He's alive, he's bad and he
got his twenty "D" Duracell batteries, his box is kicking.

ANGLE--CORNER

Radio Raheem bops by Coconut Sid, ML, and Sweet Dick Willie.

CLOSE--COCONUT SID, ML, and SWEET DICK WILLIE

All three shake their heads in bewilderment as Radio Raheem
goes by.

					ML
		  What can you say?

					COCONUT SID
		  I don't know how he does it.

Sweet Dick Willie gets up from his chair and goes to the
corner, zips down his pants, and urinates.

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  ML?

					ML
		  What?

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  ML, hold this for me.

Sweet Dick Willie and Coconut Sid laugh.

					ML
		  That's OK.  At least my moms didn't
		  name me Sweet Dick Willie.

Sweet Dick Willie zips up his pants and returns to his seat.

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  Why you gotta talk 'bout my moms?

					ML
		  Nobody talkin' 'bout ya moms.

											    59.


					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  I didn't say nobody, I said you.

					ML
		  Sweet Dick, I didn't mean it like
		  that.

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  Yes you did.

					COCONUT SID
		  Squash it.

					ML
		  I just wanted to know who named ya
		  Sweet Dick Willie?

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  It's just a name.

					COCONUT SID
		  And what does ML stand for?

					ML
		  ML stands for ML.  That's it.

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  Naw, that's some stupid shit.  Now
		  you know how I got that name.

					ML
		  Negroes kill me, always holdin'
		  onto, talkin' 'bout their dicks.

					COCONUT SID
		  I don't know 'bout you, but it's
		  too hot to fuck.

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  Never too hot, never too cold for
		  fucking.

EXT: STREET--DUSK

An old Puerto Rican man rings a bell as he pushes a cart on
wheels.  On the side of the cart is hand-lettered HELADO DE
COCO, and a big block of ice rests on top surrounded by
different colored bottles of flavors.

ANGLE--CART

A group of kids eagerly waits for the ices.  The man scrapes
the block of ice, puts the shavings in a paper cup, and
drowns it with syrup.

											    60.


ANGLE--DA MAYOR

Da Mayor is walking down the street.

ANGLE--MISTER SOFTEE TRUCK

We hear the familiar tune from the Mister Softee truck as it
comes down the street.

ANGLE--EDDIE LOVELL

Eddie, the young kid who earlier ran an errand for Da Mayor,
looks up from the sidewalk where he's playing and runs out
into the street in pursuit of Mister Softee.

					EDDIE
		  Ice cream.  Ice cream.

Eddie is running in pursuit of the truck, unaware of the
oncoming speeding car.

ANGLE--DA MAYOR

Da Mayor sees speeding car bearing down on Eddie.

ANGLE--STREET

Da Mayor runs across the street and knocks Eddie down, out
of the way of the car.  Both are thrown as they are hit by
the reckless driver.

CLOSE--EDDIE AND DA MAYOR

Eddie is crying as Da Mayor picks him up.

					DA MAYOR
		  Doctor, you know better to run out
		  in the street... Stop crying, son.

ANGLE--STREET

A crowd gathers.

					DA MAYOR
		  Doctor, there's nothing to cry
		  about.  You're OK.

A woman in her twenties, LOUISE, Eddie's mother, breaks
through the crowd and hugs her baby.

					LOUISE
		  What's wrong?

											    61.


					EDDIE
		  Mayor knocked me down.

					LOUISE
		  You should be ashamed of yourself.

					DA MAYOR
		  Ma'am, the boy is just scared to
		  death.  What actually happened is
		  that I was minding my business when
		  I saw your son about to be run over.
		  I ran into the street to save him
		  and I had to knock him down to keep
		  the both of us from getting hit.

The crowd agrees "That's the way it happened," and Louise
stands up.

					LOUISE
		  Eddie, is that the truth?

Eddie is quiet.

					LOUISE
		  Eddie, you hear me talkin' to you?

Eddie is still mum.

					LOUISE
		  I'm talkin' to you, boy.

					DA MAYOR
		  Miss, the boy is fine.

WHAP!  Louise hits Eddie on da butt.  Eddie starts to dance,
as his mother hits hard; she's heavy-handed.

					LOUISE
		  What I tell you 'bout lying?

WHOP!

					LOUISE
		  What did I tell you 'bout playing
		  in the street?

WHAP!

					EDDIE
		  Mommy!  Mommy!  I'm sorry.  I'm
		  sorry.

WHOP!

											    62.


					LOUISE
		  Get upstairs now.

Eddie runs away.

					LOUISE
		  And when your father comes home,
		  he's gonna wear ya little narrow
		  behind out too.

					DA MAYOR
		  You didn't have to hit your son;
		  he's scared to death as it was.

					LOUISE
		  I appreciate ya helping my Eddie.
		  I truly do, but I'll have nobody
		  question how I raise him, not even
		  his Daddy.

					DA MAYOR
		  You're right.

Louise goes away, probably to give her son another
"whooping."  Da Mayor tips his hat to her.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DUSK

Sal sits at a table talking to Jade as she finishes her
"special" slice.

					JADE
		  Sal, that was delicious.

					SAL
		  Anytime.

Vito, Pino, and Mookie look on, watching Sal have the time
of his life.

					JADE
		  Thanks.

Jade gets up and Mookie helps her.

					MOOKIE
		  I'll see you out.

					JADE
		  See ya around.

					SAL
		  Don't wait too long to come back.

											    63.


EXT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DUSK

Mookie takes Jade by the hand and pulls her out of view from
Sal.

ANGLE--MOOKIE AND JADE

					MOOKIE
		  Jade, I don't want you coming in
		  here no mo'.

					JADE
		  Stop tripping.

					MOOKIE
		  No, you're tripping.  Don't come in
		  Sal's.  Alright, read my lips.

					JADE
		  What are you so worked up about?

					MOOKIE
		  Over Sal, the way he talks and the
		  way he looks at you.

					JADE
		  He's just being nice.

					MOOKIE
		  Nice!

					JADE
		  He's completely innocent.

					MOOKIE
		  Innocent!

					JADE
		  I didn't stutter.  You heard me.

					MOOKIE
		  You should see the way he looks at
		  you.  All Sal wants to do is hide
		  the salami.

					JADE
		  You are too crude.

					MOOKIE
		  I might be, but you're not welcome
		  here.

											    64.


					JADE
		  Stop trying to play big brother.
		  I'm a grown woman.  You gotta lotta
		  nerve.  Mookie, you can hardly pay
		  your rent and you're gonna tell me
		  what to do.  Come off it.

					MOOKIE
		  One has nuthin' to do with the other.

					JADE
		  Oh, it doesn't, huh!  You got your
		  little 250 dollars a week plus
		  tips...

					MOOKIE
		  I'm getting paid...

					JADE
		  ...peanuts.

					MOOKIE
		  Pretty soon I'll be making a move.

					JADE
		  I truly hope so.  I'm tired of
		  supporting a grown man.

INT: CONTROL BOOTH--DUSK

CLOSE--MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  As the evening slowly falls upon us
		  living here in Brooklyn, New York,
		  this is ya Love Daddy rappin' to
		  you.  Right now we're gonna open up
		  the Love Lines.  Hello, you're on
		  Love Daddy's Love Line.  No names,
		  please.  Let's keep it anonymous.

					FEMALE VOICE #1 (VO)
		  Hi, Mister Señor Love Daddy.  I'd
		  kiss your feet every morning,
		  that's how much I love you.

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  How nice of you.

					FEMALE VOICE #2 (VO)
		  I think you have the sexiest voice
		  in the world.  All you have to do
		  is talk.

											    65.


					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  Love Line, you're on.

					FEMALE VOICE #3 (VO)
		  You give me fever.
			    (she moans)


					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  She's feeling it.

					FEMALE VOICE #4 (VO)
		  Love Daddy, I'd work in Mickey D's
		  24, 7, and 365 just to call you my
		  own.  Give you all my money, honey.

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  That was the last call for tonight
		  on Mister Señor Love Daddy's Love
		  Line.  I love you.  You I love.

EXT: MOTHER SISTER'S STOOP--NIGHT

Da Mayor is walking by Mother Sister in her window when she
calls him.

CLOSE--MOTHER SISTER

					MOTHER SISTER
		  Mister Mayor, I saw what you did.

ANGLE--DA MAYOR

Da Mayor stops and looks at her.  A smile comes to his face;
after eighteen years has he finally broken down her defenses?

CLOSE--MOTHER SISTER

					MOTHER SISTER
		  That was a foolish act, but it was
		  brave.  That chile owes you his life.

CLOSE--DA MAYOR

					DA MAYOR
		  I wasn't trying to be a hero.  I
		  saw what was about to happen and I
		  reacted, didn't even think.  If I
		  did, I might not have done it in
		  second thought.  Da Mayor is an old
		  man, haven't run that fast in years.
					(MORE)

											    66.


					DA MAYOR (CONT'D)
		  I went from first to home on a bunt
		  single, scored the winning run, the
		  bottom of the ninth, two out,
		  August 1, 1939, Snow Hill, Alabama.
			    (he is warming up now)
		  Maybe I should be heroic more often.

CLOSE--MOTHER SISTER

					MOTHER SISTER
		  Maybe you shouldn't.  Don't get
		  happy.  This changes nothing
		  between you and me.  You did a good
		  thing and Mother Sister wanted to
		  thank you for it.

ANGLE--STOOP

					DA MAYOR
		  I thank you.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  You're welcome.

Da Mayor tips his hat.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--NIGHT

Mookie enters.

					MOOKIE
		  Sal, I don't care if you fire me
		  this exact minute, leave my sister
		  alone.

					SAL
		  Mookie, I don't know what you're
		  talking about, plus I don't want to
		  hear it.

					MOOKIE
		  Sal, just do me a favor, leave Jade
		  alone.

					SAL
		  Here, you gotta delivery.

Mookie takes the pie and looks at the address.

					MOOKIE
		  Is this the right name and address?

											    67.


					SAL
		  Yeah, do you know 'em?

					MOOKIE
		  No, just checking.

INT: HALLWAY--NIGHT

Mookie rings the bell and a fine Puerto Rican sister answers
the door.

					MOOKIE
		  Delivery from Sal's Famous Pizzeria.

					TINA
		  What took you so long?  Is it hot?

					MOOKIE
		  Hot.  Hot.

					TINA
		  Come in then.

INT: TINA'S APARTMENT--NIGHT

Tina watches Mookie watch her.  When she's through watching,
she takes the pizza from his hands and puts it on the floor.
Mookie grabs her and starts to kiss.  Tina is Mookie's
woman, the one he's been on the phone with earlier.  We've
heard the voice and now SEE the person.

					MOOKIE
		  Tina, you are too slick.

					TINA
		  How else was I going to get you
		  here?  I haven't seen you in a week.

					MOOKIE
		  I've been working hard, getting paid.

					TINA
		  Where's the ice cream?  The Häagen-
		  Dazs butter pecan?

					MOOKIE
		  Shit!  I forgot.

					TINA
		  Your memory is really getting bad.

					MOOKIE
		  I just forgot.

											    68.


					TINA
		  And I really wanted some ice cream
		  too.

					MOOKIE
		  I can run out and get it.

					TINA
		  No!  No!  You won't come back either.

					MOOKIE
		  I can't be staying long anyway.

					TINA
		  How long then?

					MOOKIE
		  Long enough for us to do the nasty.

					TINA
		  That's out.  No!  It's too hot!
		  You think I'm gonna let you get
		  some, put on your clothes, then run
		  outta here and never see you again
		  in who knows when?

					MOOKIE
		  A quickie is good every once in a
		  blue moon.

					TINA
		  You a blue-moon fool.

					MOOKIE
		  Then we'll do something else.

					TINA
		  What else?

					MOOKIE
		  Trust me.

					TINA
		  Trust you?  Because of trusting you
		  we have a son.  Remember your son?

					MOOKIE
		  Trust me.

Mookie pushes Tina back into her bedroom.

											    69.


INT: TINA'S BEDROOM--NIGHT

Mookie sits Tina down on her futon bed, turns off the
lights, and turns on WE LOVE RADIO as Mister Señor Love
Daddy serenades them with slow jams.

					MOOKIE
		  I'm gonna take off ya clothes.

					TINA
		  Mookie, I told you already it's too
		  fucking hot to make love.

					MOOKIE
		  Why you gotta curse?

					TINA
		  I'm sorry, but no rawness is
		  jumping off tonight.

					MOOKIE
		  No rawness.

He laughs his sinister laugh.

ANGLE--MOOKIE AND TINA

Mookie unsnaps her bra, then pulls her panties off.  Tina is
naked as a jaybird.

					MOOKIE
		  Tina, you're sweating.

					TINA
		  Of course I'm sweating.  I'm
		  burning up.  It's hot, moron, only
		  a hundred degrees in here.

					MOOKIE
		  Lie down, please.

He gets up.

INT: TINA'S KITCHEN

Mookie walks into the kitchen and sees CARMEN, Tina's
mother, fixing some food on the stove.

					MOOKIE
		  Hello, Mrs. Rampolla.

Carmen stares at him, it's a look that would definitely stop
traffic, she mutters some Spanish and goes into her bedroom,
slamming the door behind her.

											    70.


ANGLE--MOOKIE

He opens the refrigerator and takes out all the trays of ice.

INT: TINA'S BEDROOM--NIGHT

Mookie sits down on the bed with a bowl filled with ice cubes.

CLOSE--TINA'S FOREHEAD

Mookie rubs an ice cube on her forehead.

					TINA
		  It's cold.

					MOOKIE
		  It's 'pose to be cold.

					TINA
		  Later for you.

					MOOKIE
		  Meda.  Meda.

					TINA
		  What?

					MOOKIE
		  Tina, you don't have a forehead,
		  you got a eight-head.

CLOSE--TINA'S NECK

Mookie rubs an ice cube on her neck.

CLOSE--TINA'S LIPS

Mookie rubs an ice cube on her full moist lips, then puts it
in her mouth.

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY (VO)
		  Yes, children, this is the Cool Out
		  Corner.  We're slowing it down for
		  all the lovers in the house.  I'll
		  be giving you all the help you
		  need, musically, that is.

CLOSE--TINA'S THIGHS

He rubs an ice cube up and down her thighs.

					MOOKIE (VO)
		  Thank God for thighs.

											    71.


CLOSE--TINA'S BUTTOCKS

He rubs an ice cube on her round, firm buttocks.

					MOOKIE (VO)
		  Thank God for buttocks.

CLOSE--TINA'S BREAST

He rubs an ice cube on her breast.

					MOOKIE (VO)
		  Thank God for the right nipple...
		  Thank God for the left nipple...

Both Tina and Mookie are dying.  Mookie now has an ice cube
on the left and right nipples and WE SEE before our very own
eyes both get swollen, red, and erect.

					TINA (VO)
		  Feels good.

					MOOKIE (VO)
		  Yes, yes, Lord.  Isn't this better
		  than Haagen-Dazs butter pecan ice
		  cream?

CLOSE--TINA'S MOUTH

Mookie kisses her.

					MOOKIE
		  I'll be back tonight.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--NIGHT

Officers Ponte and Long are awaiting their orders.

					SAL
		  It's almost ready.

					OFFICER LONG
		  What time you closing tonight?

					SAL
		  Ten.

Sal goes over to the oven, takes out their food and wraps it
up.

					SAL
		  Here you go.

											    72.


					OFFICER PONTE
		  What do we owe you?

					SAL
		  Nine-fifty.

					OFFICER PONTE
		  Here.

					SAL
		  Thanks.  Enjoy.

					OFFICER LONG
		  Vito, Pino, see ya later.

The officers leave just as Mookie enters.

					MOOKIE
		  Sal, if you want me to deliver any
		  faster, get me a jet rocket or
		  something, cuz I can't run with
		  pizzas, all the cheese ends up on
		  one side and shit.

					SAL
		  I didn't say nuthin'.  You must
		  have a guilty conscience.  What are
		  you guilty of?

					MOOKIE
		  I'm not guilty of nuthin'.

					SAL
		  You must be guilty of something or
		  you would have never come in saying
		  the things you said.

					MOOKIE
		  C'mon, Sal.

					SAL
		  Where we goin'?

While Sal laughs at his corny joke, Pino pulls Vito into the
back.

INT: STOREROOM--NIGHT

					PINO
		  Vito, I want you to listen to me.
		  I'm your brother.  I may smack you
		  around once in awhile, boss you
		  around, but I'm still your brother.

											    73.


					VITO
		  I know this.

					PINO
		  I love you.

					VITO
		  I'm listening.

					PINO
		  Good.  I want you to listen.

					VITO
		  Jesus Christ on the cross, I said
		  I'm listening.

					PINO
		  Good.  Vito, you trust that Mook
		  too much.  So does Pop.

					VITO
		  Mookie's OK.

					PINO
		  You listening to me?

					VITO
		  Stop busting my balls.  I said I'm
		  listening ten fucking times already.

					PINO
		  Mookie is not to be trusted.  No
		  Moulan Yan can be trusted.  The
		  first time you turn your back,
		  boom, a knife right here.
			    (Pino gestures)
		  In the back.

					VITO
		  How do you know this?

					PINO
		  I know.

					VITO
		  You really think so?

					PINO
		  I know so.  He, them, they're not
		  to be trusted.

					VITO
		  So what do you want me to do?

											    74.


					PINO
		  Be on guard.  Mookie has Pop conned
		  already, so we have to look out for
		  him.

					VITO
		  I like Mookie a lot.

					PINO
		  And that's exactly what I'm talkin'
		  'bout.

					SAL (OS)
		  Vito!  Pino!  Let's go.

					PINO
		  Be right there, Pop.  Listen to
		  what I said.

					VITO
		  You don't listen to me, never have.
		  Just run your big fucking mouth
		  always playing big brother.  You
		  don't listen, but Mookie does.

HOT CITY NIGHT MONTAGE

THE BLOCK.  WE'VE SEEN it at daytime, but now WE SEE it at
night.  Even though the white-hot sun is gone, nonetheless
the heat is still stifling.  And in a peculiar, funny sort
of way, it's worse.  You expect it to be hot during the
light of day when the sun is beating down on the cement and
tar, but at night it should be considerably cooler; well,
not tonight, it's hot.  All the residents of The Block: the
Corner Men, Mother Sister, Da Mayor, Jade, etc., all the
people WE'VE SEEN throughout the day are now coping with the
night-time heat, plus it's humid as shit.  Everyone is
outside, sitting on stoops, on cars and you know the kids
are playing, running up and down the block.  Now it's the
hottest night of the year.

EXT: STREET--NIGHT

Buggin' Out sits down on a car next to Radio Raheem; as
usual, his box is blasting.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  How you be?

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  I be.  I'm living large.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Is that the only tape you got?

											    75.


					RADIO RAHEEM
		  You don't like Public Enemy?  It's
		  the dope shit.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  I like 'em, but you don't play
		  anything else.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  I don't like anything else.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Check this out.  Y'know Sal's.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  Yeah, I know dat motherfucker.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  I'm trying to organize a boycott of
		  Sal's pizza joint.  Ya see what I'm
		  saying?

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  I almost had to yoke him this
		  afternoon.  Tell me, tell me, Radio
		  Raheem, to turn my music down.
		  Didn't even say please.  Who the
		  fuck he think he is?  Don Corleone
		  and shit.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  He makes all his money off us Black
		  people and I don't see nuthin' but
		  Italians all up in there, Sylvester
		  Stallone and motherfuckers.  Ya see
		  what I'm saying, homeboy?

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  Talk to me.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  We shouldn't buy a single slice,
		  spend a single penny in that
		  motherfucker till some people of
		  color are put up in there.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  That's what I'm talkin' 'bout.
		  That's what I'm talkin' 'bout.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  You got my back.

											    76.


					RADIO RAHEEM
		  Ya back is got.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  My brother.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  My brother.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--NIGHT

Vito, Pino and Mookie are cleaning up.

					MOOKIE
		  Sal, it's almost quitting time so
		  please start counting my pay.  I
		  gotta get paid.

Sal is looking into the cash register.

					SAL
		  We did good business today.  We got
		  a good thing going.  Nothing like a
		  family in business working together.
		  One day the both of you will take
		  over...and Mookie, there will
		  always be a place for you at Sal's
		  Famous Pizzeria.  Y'know, it should
		  be Sal's and Sons Famous Pizzeria.

ANGLE--VITO, PINO, AND MOOKIE

All three look at each other.  The horror is on their faces,
with the prospect of working, slaving in Sal's and Sons
Famous Pizzeria, trapped for the rest of their lives.  Is
this their future?  It's a frightening thought.

ANGLE--DOOR

Ahmad, Cee, Punchy, and Ella enter.

					SAL
		  We're about to close.

					AHMAD
		  Just four slices, regular slices.
		  Please.  To go!

					SAL
		  OK, but that's it.  It's been a
		  long day.

Mookie goes over to the table where Ahmad, Cee, Punchy, and
Ella sit.

											    77.


					MOOKIE
		  Look, I want you to get your
		  slices, then outta here.  No
		  playing around.

					AHMAD
		  You got it.

					MOOKIE
		  Good.  No joke.  We all wanna go
		  home.

OH NO!  We hear the dum-dum-dum of Radio Raheem's box.  As
everyone turns their heads to the door, Buggin' Out and
Radio Raheem are inside already.  We have never heard the
rap music as loud as it is now.  You have to scream to be
heard and that's what they do.

					SAL
		  What did I tell ya 'bout dat noise?

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  What did I tell ya 'bout dem
		  pictures?

					SAL
		  What da fuck!  Are you deaf?

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  No, are you?  We want some Black
		  people up on the Wall of Fame.

					SAL
		  Turn that JUNGLE MUSIC off.  We
		  ain't in Africa.

Ahmad, Cee, Punchy, and Ella start to dance while Mookie
takes a seat, the impartial observer that he is.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  Why it gotta be about jungle music
		  and Africa?

					SAL
		  It's about turning that shit off
		  and getting the fuck outta my
		  pizzeria.

					PINO
		  Radio Raheem.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  Fuck you.

											    78.


					SAL
		  What ever happened to nice music
		  with words you can understand?

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  This is music.  My music.

					VITO
		  We're closed.

					BUGGIN' OUT
		  You're closed alright, till you get
		  some Black people up on that wall.

Sal grabs his Mickey Mantle bat from underneath the counter
and brings it down on Radio Raheem's box, again and again
and again.  The music stops.

CLOSE--RADIO RAHEEM'S BOX

Radio Raheem's pride and joy is smashed to smithereens.
It's going to the junkyard quick.

ANGLE--PIZZERIA

There is an eerie quiet as everyone is frozen, surprised by
the suddenness of Sal's action, the swings of his Mickey
Mantle bat.  All look at Radio Raheem and realize what is
about to happen.

ANGLE--RADIO RAHEEM

Radio Raheem screams, he goes crazy.

					RADIO RAHEEM
		  My music!

Radio Raheem picks Sal up from behind the counter and starts
to choke his ass.  Radio Raheem's prized possession--his
box, the only thing he owned of value--his box, the one
thing that gave him any sense of worth--has been smashed to
bits. (Radio Raheem, like many Black youth, is the victim of
materialism and a misplaced sense of values.) Now he doesn't
give a fuck anymore.  He's gonna make Sal pay with his life.

Vito and Pino jump on Radio Raheem, who only tightens his
grip around Sal's neck.  Buggin' Out tries to help his
friend.  Mookie just stands and watches as Ahmad, Cee,
Punchy, and Ella cheerlead.

											    79.


EXT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--NIGHT

The tangled mass of choking, biting, kicking, screaming
confusion flies through the door of Sal's out onto the
sidewalk.

CLOSE--EDDIE

The kid yells:

					EDDIE
		  Fight!  Fight!

								    CUT TO:

CLOSE--DA MAYOR

He looks up.

								    CUT TO:

CLOSE--MOTHER SISTER

She looks up.

								    CUT TO:

CLOSE--SWEET DICK WILLIE

He also looks up.

ANGLE--STREET

The people on The Block run to Sal's Famous Pizzeria to see
the STATIC.

ANGLE--SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA

Radio Raheem, Buggin' Out, Sal, Vito, and Pino are still
entangled, rolling around on the sidewalk, but now before an
entertained crowd of onlookers:

ANGLE--DA MAYOR

					DA MAYOR
		  Break it up.  This is crazy.

The fight continues.  Da Mayor is smart enough not to get in
the middle of this war.  We hear sirens, somebody has called
DA COPS.

ANGLE--STREET

											    80.


The cop cars come right through the crowd, almost running
over some people.  The cops get out with nightsticks and
guns drawn.  WE RECOGNIZE two of the faces, Officers Long
and Ponte.  Any time there is a skirmish between a Black man
and a white man, you can bet the house on who the copes are
gonna go for.  You know the deal!  Buggin' Out is pulled off
first, then Vito and Pino, but Radio Raheem is a crazed man.
It takes all six cops to pull him off Sal, who is red as a
beet from being choked.

ANGLE--COPS

Handcuffs are put on Buggin' Out as he watches the other
cops put a choke hold on Radio Raheem to restrain him.

ANGLE--RADIO RAHEEM

Radio Raheem is still struggling, then he just stops, his
body goes limp and he falls to the sidewalk like a fifty-
pound bag of Idaho potatoes.

ANGLE--STREET

Officers Long and Ponte kick him.

					OFFICER LONG
		  Get up!  Get up!

Radio Raheem just lies there like a bump on a log.

ANGLE--CROWD

The crowd stares at Radio Raheem's still body.  He's
unconscious or dead.

CLOSE--OFFICER LONG

					OFFICER LONG
		  Quit faking.

ANGLE--STREET

The officers all look at each other.  They know, they know
exactly what they've done.  The infamous Michael Stewart
choke hold.

					OFFICER PONTE
		  Let's get him outta here.

The officers pick up Radio Raheem's limp body and throw him
into the back seat.  Buggin' Out is pushed into another car.
The cop cars speed off; in their haste to beat it, they have
left the crowd.  It's at this point the crowd becomes an
angry mob.

											    81.


ANGLE--MOB

The mob looks at...

ANGLE--MOB POV

Sal still on the sidewalk, being helped to his feet by Vito
and Pino, who are in bad shape themselves.

ANGLE--MOB

The mood/tone of the mob is getting ugly.  Once again they
have seen one of their own killed before their eyes at the
hands of the cops.  We hear the murmurs of the folks go
through the crowd.

					VOICES OF MOB
		  THEY KILLED HIM
		  THEY KILLED RADIO RAHEEM
		  IT'S MURDER
		  DID IT AGAIN
		  JUST LIKE THEY DID MICHAEL STEWART
		  MURDER
		  ELEANOR BUMPERS
		  MURDER
		  IT'S NOT SAFE
		  NOT EVEN IN OUR OWN NEIGHBORHOOD
		  IT'S NOT SAFE
		  NEVER WAS
		  NEVER WILL BE

The cops, in their haste to get Radio Raheem out of there,
have left an angry mob of Black folks with a defenseless
Sal, Vito, and Pino.

The mob looks at them.

					VOICES OF MOB
		  WON'T STAND FOR IT
		  THE LAST TIME
		  FUCKIN' COPS
		  THE LAST TIME
		  IT'S PLAIN AS DAY
		  DIDN'T HAVE TO KILL THE BOY

HIGH ANGLE

Mookie looks at the crowd and notices he's on the wrong side.
He leaves Sal and his two sons.

ANGLE--STREET

Da Mayor walks in front of the crowd.

											    82.


					DA MAYOR
		  Good people, let's all go home.
		  Somebody's gonna get hurt.

					CROWD (OS)
		  Yeah, you!

					DA MAYOR
		  If we don't stop this now, we'll
		  all regret it.  Sal and his two
		  boys had nothing to do with what
		  the police did.

					CROWD (OS)
		  Get out of the way, old man.  You a
		  Tom anyway.

					DA MAYOR
		  Let 'em be.

ANGLE--STREET

Mookie picks up a garbage can and dumps it out into the
street.  He walks through the crowd, up to Da Mayor, Sal,
Vito, and Pino.

CLOSE--MOOKIE

He screams.

					MOOKIE
		  HATE!!!!

SLOW MOTION

Mookie hurls the garbage can through the plate glass window
of Sal's Famous Pizzeria.  That's it.  All hell breaks loose.
The dam has been unplugged, broke.  The rage of a people has
been unleashed, a fury.  A lone garbage can thrown through
the air has released a tidal wave of frustration.

ANGLE--STREET

Da Mayor pushes Sal, Vito, and Pino out of the way as the
mob storms into Sal's Famous Pizzeria.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--NIGHT

The people rush into Sal's Famous Pizzeria, tearing it up.

CLOSE--CASH REGISTER

The cash register is opened.  WE SEE only coins, Sal has the
paper.

											    83.


EXT: DA MAYOR'S STOOP--NIGHT

Da Mayor leads Sal, Vito, and Pino back to his stoop where
they watch in horror.

					SAL
		  There it goes.  Why?

					DA MAYOR
		  You was there.  First white folks
		  they saw.  You was there.

					PINO
		  Fuckin' niggers.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--NIGHT

Someone lights a match.  WHOOOSH!

EXT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--NIGHT

Sal's Famous Pizzeria is going up in flames and now it's a
carnival.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  Burn it down.  Burn it down.

One might have thought that the elders--who through the
years have been broken down, whipped, their spirits crushed,
beaten into submission--would be docile, strictly onlookers.
That's not true except for Da Mayor.  The rest of the elders
are right up in it with the young people.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--NIGHT

CLOSE--PHOTOS ON WALL OF FAME

The photos of famous Italian-Americans are burning.

EXT: FRUIT-N-VEG DELIGHT--NIGHT

The mob now moves across the street in front of the Korean
fruit and vegetable stand.  Sweet Dick Willie, Coconut Sid,
and ML stand at the head of the mob.

					ML
		  It's your turn.

CLOSE--KOREAN CLERK

He's scared to death, as the mob is poised to tear his place
up too.  The clerk wildly swings a broom to hold them off.

											    84.


					KOREAN CLERK
		  Me no white.  Me no white.  Me
		  Black.  Me Black.  Me Black.

CLOSE--ML

					ML
		  Me Black.  Me Black.

The mob starts to laugh; they feel for him.

ANGLE--MOB

					SWEET DICK WILLIE
		  Korea man is OK.  Let's leave him
		  alone.

					ML
		  Him no white.  Him no white.

					COCONUT SID
		  Him Black.  Him Black.

EXT: DA MAYOR'S STOOP--NIGHT

Sal, Vito, and Pino look on as Sal's Famous Pizzeria goes up
in smoke.

								    DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE--VITO

								    DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE--PINO

								    DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE--SAL

EXT: STREET--NIGHT

ANGLE--STREET

Jade is running through the mob, looking for her brother.

					JADE
		  Mookie!  Mookie!

ANGLE--MOOKIE

Mookie is running around with the rest of the mob.

ANGLE--STREET

											    85.


The wail of fire trucks and police sirens is now added to
the night.

EXT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--NIGHT

The mob moves back to in front of Sal's as the fire trucks
and police, in full riot gear, pull up in the street behind
them.

					POLICE LOUDSPEAKER (VO)
		  Good people.  Please disperse.
		  Please disperse.

The firemen rush to hook up their hoses, the police force
themselves between the crowd and the burning Sal's Famous
Pizzeria.

					POLICE LOUDSPEAKER (VO)
		  Please disperse!  Please disperse!

The mob doesn't listen, they will not be moved.  The mob
will not be moved until they see Sal's Famous Pizzeria burn
to the ground.

ANGLE--SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA

The firemen douse the pizzeria, trying desperately to stop
the fire from spreading into the adjoining buildings.

					POLICE LOUDSPEAKER (VO)
		  Good people, we're giving you one
		  more warning.  Please go back home.

CLOSE--MOOKIE

					MOOKIE
		  This is our home.

CLOSE--MOTHER SISTER

					MOTHER SISTER
		  This is our neighborhood.

ANGLE--MOB

It will take force to move this mass of people.

					POLICE LOUDSPEAKER (VO)
		  You've had your warning!

POW!

The hoses are turned on the mob.

											    86.


WE SEE Mookie, Mother Sister, Sweet Dick Willie, ML, Coconut
Sid, Jade, Ahmad, Cee, Punchy, and Ella, etc., go down
before the powerful blast of the firehouse.

Now we've come full circle.  We're back to Montgomery or
Birmingham, Alabama.  The only thing missing is Sheriff Bull
Connor and the German shepherds.

It would take force to move them and that's exactly what the
mob got.  People are trying to hold on to each other, cars,
railings, anything to keep from being swept away.

EXT: DA MAYOR'S STOOP--NIGHT

Da Mayor, Sal, Vito, and Pino watch in disbelief.  It's
unbelievable what is happening before their eyes.

								    CUT TO:

THE STREET--NIGHT
THEIR POV

People are screaming, kids and women are not being spared
from the brute force of the firehoses either.

EXT: WE LOVE STOREFRONT--NIGHT

WE SEE the reflection of the fire in the storefront window
as Mister Señor Love Daddy looks on.

EXT: STREET--NIGHT

ANGLE--JADE AND MOTHER SISTER

Jade and Mother Sister try to hold on to a streetlamp as a
gush of water hits them; their grips loosens, the water is
too powerful, and they slide away down the block and Da
Mayor runs after them.

INT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--NIGHT

CLOSE--PHOTOS

Some burnt photos on the floor.

CLOSE--MICKEY MANTLE BAT

The Mickey Mantle bat burns.

CLOSE--RADIO RAHEEM'S BOX

Radio Raheem's box has melted into a black mass of goo.

CLOSER--RADIO RAHEEM'S BOX

											    87.


As WE MOVE IN TIGHTER ON the melted box, we begin to hear
the rap song that we've hear throughout.  All other sound
drops as the rap song gets louder and louder until it's
deafening.

ANGLE--SMILEY

Smiley sits up from where he hid during the burning and
looting of Sal's Famous Pizzeria.  Smiley looks around and
goes directly to the smoldering Wall of Fame.  He stands
there.  Smiley pins one of his Malcolm X/Martin Luther King,
Jr., cards to the Wall of Fame.

CLOSE--PHOTO

CLOSE--SMILEY

We're on Smiley's face and a smile slowly travels across.
It's the first time Smiley has smiled in years and nobody is
there to see this event.

FADE TO BLACK

THE MORNING AFTER

FADE IN:

EXT: THE STREET--TO INT: RADIO STATION STOREFRONT--DAY

The CAMERA, FROM HIGH ABOVE, CRANES DOWN ON The Block.  The
sidewalk is deserted, broken glass is everywhere, and it
looks exactly as how one expects it to look, the morning
after an uprising.

The CAMERA NOW MOVES IN ON the WE LOVE storefront where
Mister Señor Love Daddy is in his familiar place behind the
mike.

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  My people.  My people.  What can I
		  say?  Say what I can.  I saw it but
		  I didn't believe it.  I didn't
		  believe it what I saw.  Are we
		  gonna live together?  Together are
		  we gonna live?  This is ya Mister
		  Señor Love Daddy here on WE LOVE
		  RADIO, 108 FM on your dial, and
		  that's the truth, Ruth.

CLOSE--MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY

											    88.


					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  Today's weather.
			    (he yells)
		  HOT!

CLOSER--MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY

He screams:

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY
		  WAKE UP!

								    CUT TO:

INT: TINA'S BEDROOM--DAY

Mookie jumps out of her bed; Tina sleeps by his side and
their son Hector is between them.

					MISTER SEÑOR LOVE DADDY (VO)
		  WAKE UP!

					MOOKIE
		  Fuck!  My money!

					TINA
		  Where are you going?

					MOOKIE
		  To get my money.

					TINA
		  Mookie, you must think I'm stupid
		  or something.  You're gonna run
		  outta here and I won't see your
		  black ass for another week.

					MOOKIE
		  Tina, it's not like that.

Mookie is putting on his clothes.

					TINA
		  You don't care about me and you
		  definately don't care 'bout your son.

					MOOKIE
		  Tina, I'll be right back.

					TINA
		  Be a man.

					MOOKIE
		  I am a man.

											    89.


					TINA
		  Act like one then.  Be a man.

					MOOKIE
		  Later.

					TINA
		  You're to the curb.  You better
		  step off.  Get a life.

Mookie leaves.

MOTHER SISTER'S BEDROOM--DAY

Da Mayor wakes up in Mother Sister's big brass bed (she was
born in it).  At first he has no idea where he's at, then
sees Mother Sister sitting down across the room smiling at
him.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  Good morning.

					DA MAYOR
		  Is it a good morning?

					MOTHER SISTER
		  Yes indeed.  You almost got yourself
		  killed last night.

					DA MAYOR
		  I've done that before.

Da Mayor gets up out of her big brass bed.

					DA MAYOR
		  Where did you sleep?

					MOTHER SISTER
		  I didn't.

					DA MAYOR
		  I hope the block is still standing.

					MOTHER SISTER
		  We're still standing.

Da Mayor and Mother Sister both look out the parlor window
to see THE BLOCK and Mookie.

EXT: SAL'S FAMOUS PIZZERIA--DAY

Mookie walks up to Sal's Famous Pizzeria as it still
smoulders in the morning light.  Sal emerges from the
wreckage; he looks like he might have slept there.

											    90.


					SAL
		  Whatdafuck do you want?

					MOOKIE
		  I wants my money.  I wants to get
		  paid.

Sal looks at Mookie in disbelief.

					SAL
		  Mookie, I always liked you.  Not
		  the smartest kid, but you're honest.
		  Don't make me dislike you.

					MOOKIE
		  Sal, I want my money.

					SAL
		  Don't even ask about your money.
		  Your money wouldn't even pay for
		  that window you smashed.

					MOOKIE
		  Motherfuck a window, Radio Raheem
		  is dead.

					SAL
		  You're right, a kid is dead, but
		  Mook, this isn't the time.

					MOOKIE
		  Fuck dat.  The time is fuckin' now.
		  Y'know I'm sorry 'bout Sal's Famous
		  Pizzeria, but I gotta live, too. I
		  gotta get paid.

					SAL
		  We both do.

					MOOKIE
		  We all know you're gonna get over
		  with the insurance money anyway!
		  Ya know da deal.

					SAL
		  Do we now?

					MOOKIE
		  Quit bullshitting.

					SAL
		  You don't know shit about shit.

											    91.


					MOOKIE
		  I know I wants to get my money.

Sal has had it.

					SAL
		  How much?  How much do I owe you?

					MOOKIE
		  My salary.  Two-fifty.

Sal pulls out a wad and quickly peels off hundred dollar
bills.

					SAL
		  One, two, three, four, five.

Sal throws the "C" notes at Mookie, they hit him in the
chest and fall to the sidewalk.

					SAL
		  Are you happy now?  That's five
		  fucking hundred dollars.  You just
		  got paid.  Mookie, you are a rich
		  man, now ya life is set, you'll
		  never have another worry, a care in
		  the world.  Mookie, ya wealthy, a
		  fuckin' Rockefeller.

Mookie is stunned by Sal's outburst.  He picks up the bills.

					SAL
		  Ya just got paid, so leave me the
		  fuck alone.

					MOOKIE
		  You only pay me two-fifty a week.
			    (he throws two "C"
			    notes back at him)
		  I owe you fifty bucks.

					SAL
		  Keep it.

					MOOKIE
		  You keep it.

					SAL
		  Christmas came early.

Both look at the two hundred-dollar bills on the sidewalk
and refuse to pick them up.  It's a stalemate.

											    92.


					MOOKIE
		  This is the hottest Christmas I've
		  known.

Mookie counts his money.

					SAL
		  It's supposed to be even hotter
		  today.

					MOOKIE
		  You gonna open up another Sal's
		  Famous Pizzeria?

					SAL
		  No.  What are you gonna do?

					MOOKIE
		  Make dat money.  Get paid.

					SAL
		  Yeah!...I'm goin' to the beach for
		  the first day in fifteen years.
		  Gonna take the day off and go to
		  the beach.

					MOOKIE
		  I can dig it.  It's gonna be HOT as
		  a motherfucker.

					SAL
		  Mookie?

					MOOKIE
		  Gotta go.

					SAL
		  C'mere, Doctor.

Mookie turns around and goes back.

					SAL
		  Doctor, this is Sal talkin'.

					MOOKIE
		  OK.  OK.

					SAL
		  Doctor, always try to do the right
		  thing.

					MOOKIE
		  That's it?

											    93.


					SAL
		  That's it.

Mookie thinks about it, looks at the two "C" notes still
smiling up at him.  He quickly scoops them up.

					MOOKIE
		  I got it.

EXT: STREET--DAY

HIGH ANGLE

As Mookie turns and walks away, Sal goes back into Sal's
Famous Pizzeria to salvage what is salvageable, and The
Block begins to awake from its slumber, ready to deal once
again with the heat of the hottest day of the year.

								    FADE OUT.

ROLL CREDITS.


<!--Ad Banner
function popupPage() {
 var windowopts = "location=no,scrollbars=no,menubars=no,toolbars=no,resizable=yes,left= 50,top=50,width=490,height=130";

 popup77344 = open('/prohost/banner.html',"MenuPopup",windowopts);
 popup77344.focus();
<b>}
</b>
popupPage();

//  Ad Banner-->


